Bukhari:6001 Narrated `Abdullah:I said 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which sin is the greatest?" He said, "To set up a rival unto Allah, though He 
Alone created you." I said, "What next?" He said, "To kill your son lest he should share your food 
with you." I further asked, "What next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife 
of your neighbor." And then Allah revealed as proof of the statement of the Prophet: 'Those who 
invoke not with Allah any other god)................. (to end of verse)...' (25.68)
Bukhari:6002 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) took a child in his lap for Tahnik (i.e. he chewed a date in his mouth and put its juice in 
the mouth of the child). The child urinated on him, so he asked for water and poured it over the place 
of the urine.
Bukhari:6003 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to put me on (one of) his thighs and put Al-Hasan bin `Ali on his other thigh, and 
then embrace us and say, "O Allah! Please be Merciful to them, as I am merciful to them. "
Bukhari:6004 Narrated `Aisha:I never felt so jealous of any woman as I did of Khadija, though she had died three years before the 
Prophet married me, and that was because I heard him mentioning her too often, and because his Lord 
had ordered him to give her the glad tidings that she would have a palace in Paradise, made of Qasab 
and because he used to slaughter a sheep and distribute its meat among her friends.
Bukhari:6005 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I and the person who looks after an orphan and provides for him, will be in 
Paradise like this," putting his index and middle fingers together.
Bukhari:6006 Narrated Safwan bin Salim:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "The one who looks after and works for a widow and for a poor person, is like a 
warrior fighting for Allah's Cause or like a person who fasts during the day and prays all the night." 
Narrated Abu Huraira that the Prophet (ﷺ) said as above.
Bukhari:6007 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The one who looks after and works for a widow and for a poor person is like a 
warrior fighting for Allah's Cause." (The narrator Al-Qa'nabi is not sure whether he also said "Like the 
one who prays all the night without slackness and fasts continuously and never breaks his fast.")
Bukhari:6008 Narrated Abu Sulaiman and Malik bin Huwairith:We came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and we were (a few) young men of approximately equal age and stayed with 
him for twenty nights. Then he thought that we were anxious for our families, and he asked us whom 
we had left behind to look after our families, and we told him. He was kindhearted and merciful, so he 
said, "Return to your families and teach them (religious knowledge) and order them (to do good 
deeds) and offer your prayers in the way you saw me offering my prayers, and when the stated time 
for the prayer becomes due, then one of you should pronounce its call (i.e. the Adhan), and the eldest 
of you should lead you in prayer.
Bukhari:6009 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was walking on a road. he became very thirsty. Then he came 
across a well, got down into it, drank (of its water) and then came out. Meanwhile he saw a dog 
panting and licking mud because of excessive thirst. The man said to himself "This dog is suffering 
from the same state of thirst as I did." So he went down the well (again) and filled his shoe (with 
water) and held it in his mouth and watered the dog. Allah thanked him for that deed and forgave 
him." The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Is there a reward for us in serving the animals?" He said, 
"(Yes) There is a reward for serving any animate (living being) ."
Bukhari:6010 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer and we too stood up along with him. Then a bedouin shouted 
while offering prayer. "O Allah! Bestow Your Mercy on me and Muhammad only and do not bestow 
it on anybody else along with us." When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished his prayer with Taslim, he said to 
the Bedouin, "You have limited (narrowed) a very vast (thing)," meaning Allah's Mercy.
Bukhari:6011 Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see the believers as regards their being merciful among themselves and 
showing love among themselves and being kind, resembling one body, so that, if any part of the body 
is not well then the whole body shares the sleeplessness (insomnia) and fever with it."
Bukhari:6012 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If any Muslim plants any plant and a human being or an animal eats of it, he will 
be rewarded as if he had given that much in charity."
Bukhari:6013 Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who is not merciful to others, will not be treated mercifully.
Bukhari:6014 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "Gabriel continued to recommend me about treating the neighbors Kindly and 
politely so much so that I thought he would order me to make them as my heirs.
Bukhari:6015 Narrates Ibn `Umar:Allah' Apostle said, Gabriel kept on recommending me about treating the neighbors in a kind and 
polite manner, so much so that I thought that he would order (me) to make them (my) heirs."
Bukhari:6016 Narrated Abu Shuraih:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does 
not believe!" It was said, "Who is that, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "That person whose neighbor 
does not feel safe from his evil."
Bukhari:6017 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Muslim ladies! A neighbouress should not look down upon the present of 
her neighbouress even it were the hooves of a sheep."
Bukhari:6018 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should not harm his neighbor, 
and anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should entertain his guest generously and 
anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet. (i.e. abstain 
from all kinds of evil and dirty talk).
Bukhari:6019 Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Adawi:My ears heard and my eyes saw the Prophet (ﷺ) when he spoke, "Anybody who believes in Allah and the 
Last Day, should serve his neighbor generously, and anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day 
should serve his guest generously by giving him his reward." It was asked. "What is his reward, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "(To be entertained generously) for a day and a night with high quality of 
food and the guest has the right to be entertained for three days (with ordinary food) and if he stays 
longer, what he will be provided with will be regarded as Sadaqa (a charitable gift). And anybody who 
believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet (i.e. abstain from all kinds 
of dirty and evil talks).
Bukhari:6020 Narrated `Aisha:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have two neighbors! To whom shall I send my gifts?" He said, "To the 
one whose gate in nearer to you."
Bukhari:6021 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Enjoining, all that is good is a Sadaqa."
Bukhari:6022 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On every Muslim there is enjoined (a compulsory) Sadaqa (alms)." They (the 
people) said, "If one has nothing?' He said, "He should work with his hands so that he may benefit 
himself and give in charity." They said, "If he cannot work or does not work?" He said, "Then he 
should help the oppressed unhappy person (by word or action or both)." They said, "If he does not do 
it?" He said, "Then he should enjoin what is good (or said what is reasonable).' They said, "If he does 
not do that''' He said, "Then he should refrain from doing evil, for that will be considered for Him as a 
Sadaqa (charity) . "
Bukhari:6023 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the (Hell) Fire and sought refuge (with Allah) from it, and turned his face to 
the other side. He mentioned the (Hell) Fire again and took refuge (with Allah) from it and turned his 
face to the other side. (Shu`ba, the sub-narrator, said, "I have no doubt that the Prophet (ﷺ) repeated it 
twice.") The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "(O people!) Save yourselves from the (Hell) Fire even if with one 
half of a date fruit (given in charity), and if this is not available, then (save yourselves) by saying a 
good pleasant friendly word."
Bukhari:6024 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) A group of Jews entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "As-Samu-Alaikum." 
(i.e. death be upon you). I understood it and said, "Wa-Alaikum As-Samu wal-la'n. (death and the 
curse of Allah be Upon you)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "Be calm, O `Aisha! Allah loves that on, should be 
kind and lenient in all matters." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Haven't you heard what they (the Jews) 
have said?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "I have (already) said (to them) "And upon you ! "
Bukhari:6025 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A bedouin urinated in the mosque and the people ran to (beat) him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not 
interrupt his urination (i.e. let him finish)." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a tumbler of water and poured 
the water over the place of urine.
Bukhari:6026 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer to another believer is like a building whose different parts enforce each 
other." The Prophet (ﷺ) then clasped his hands with the fingers interlaced. (At that time) the Prophet (ﷺ) was 
sitting and a man came and begged or asked for something. The Prophet (ﷺ) faced us and said, "Help and 
recommend him and you will receive the reward for it, and Allah will bring about what He will 
through His Prophet's tongue."
Bukhari:6027 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer to another believer is like a building whose different parts enforce each 
other." The Prophet (ﷺ) then clasped his hands with the fingers interlaced. (At that time) the Prophet (ﷺ) was 
sitting and a man came and begged or asked for something. The Prophet (ﷺ) faced us and said, "Help and 
recommend him and you will receive the reward for it, and Allah will bring about what He will 
through His Prophet's tongue."
Bukhari:6028 Narrated Abu Musa:Whenever a beggar or a person in need came to the Prophet, the Prophet
     would say "Help and recommend him and you will receive the reward for 
     it, and Allah will bring about what he will through His Prophet's 
     tongue
Bukhari:6029 Narrated Masruq:Abdullah bin 'Amr mentioned Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying that he was neither
     a Fahish nor a Mutafahish. Abdullah bin 'Amr added, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     said, 'The best among you are those who have the best manners and 
     character.'
Bukhari:6030 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mulaika:`Aisha said that the Jews came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "As-Samu 'Alaikum" (death be on you). 
`Aisha said (to them), "(Death) be on you, and may Allah curse you and shower His wrath upon you!" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be calm, O `Aisha ! You should be kind and lenient, and beware of harshness and 
Fuhsh (i.e. bad words)." She said (to the Prophet), "Haven't you heard what they (Jews) have said?" 
He said, "Haven't you heard what I have said (to them)? I said the same to them, and my invocation 
against them will be accepted while theirs against me will be rejected (by Allah). "
Bukhari:6031 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) was not one who would abuse (others) or say obscene words, or curse (others), and if he 
wanted to admonish anyone of us, he used to say: "What is wrong with him, his forehead be dusted!"
Bukhari:6032 Narrated 'Aisha:A man asked permission to enter upon the Prophet. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw
     him, he said, "What an evil brother of his tribe! And what an evil son
     of his tribe!" When that man sat down, the Prophet (ﷺ) behaved with him in
     a nice and polite manner and was completely at ease with him. When 
     that person had left, 'Aisha said (to the Prophet). "O Allah's 
     Apostle! When you saw that man, you said so-and-so about him, then you
     showed him a kind and polite behavior, and you enjoyed his company?" 
     Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O 'Aisha! Have you ever seen me speaking a bad 
     and dirty language? (Remember that) the worst people in Allah's sight 
     on the Day of Resurrection will be those whom the people leave 
     (undisturbed) to be away from their evil (deeds)."
Bukhari:6033 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best among the people (both in shape and 
     character) and was the most generous of them, and was the bravest of 
     them. Once, during the night, the people of Medina got afraid (of a 
     sound). So the people went towards that sound, but the Prophet (ﷺ) having 
     gone to that sound before them, met them while he was saying, "Don't 
     be afraid, don't be afraid." (At that time) he was riding a horse 
     belonging to Abu Talha and it was naked without a saddle, and he was 
     carrying a sword slung at his neck. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I found it (the
     horse) like a sea, or, it is the sea indeed."
Bukhari:6034 Narrated Jabir:Never was the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a thing to be given for which his answer was 'no'.
Bukhari:6035 Narrated Masruq:We were sitting with `Abdullah bin `Amr who was narrating to us (Hadith): He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
was neither a Fahish nor a Mutafahhish, and he used to say, 'The best among you are the best in 
character (having good manners)."'
Bukhari:6036 Narrated Abu Hazim:Sahl bin Sa`d said that a woman brought a Burda (sheet) to the Prophet. Sahl asked the people, "Do 
you know what is a Burda?" The people replied, "It is a 'Shamla', a sheet with a fringe." That woman 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have brought it so that you may wear it." So the Prophet (ﷺ) took it because he 
was in need of it and wore it. A man among his companions, seeing him wearing it, said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Please give it to me to wear." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." (and gave him that sheet). When the 
Prophet left, the man was blamed by his companions who said, "It was not nice on your part to ask the 
Prophet for it while you know that he took it because he was in need of it, and you also know that he 
(the Prophet) never turns down anybody's request that he might be asked for." That man said, "I just 
wanted to have its blessings as the Prophet (ﷺ) had put it on, so l hoped that I might be shrouded in it."
Bukhari:6037 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Time will pass rapidly, good deeds will decrease, and miserliness will be 
thrown (in the hearts of the people), and the Harj (will increase)." They asked, "What is the Harj?" He 
replied, "(It is) killing (murdering), (it is) murdering (killing).
Bukhari:6038 Narrated Anas:I served the Prophet (ﷺ) for ten years, and he never said to me, "Uf" (a minor harsh word denoting 
impatience) and never blamed me by saying, "Why did you do so or why didn't you do so?"
Bukhari:6039 Narrated Al-Aswad:I asked `Aisha what did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do at home. She replied. "He used to keep himself busy 
serving his family and when it was time for the prayer, he would get up for prayer."
Bukhari:6040 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Allah loves a person, He calls Gabriel saying: 'Allah loves so and so; O Gabriel, 
love him.' Gabriel would love him, and then Gabriel would make an announcement among the 
residents of the Heaven, 'Allah loves so-and-so, therefore, you should love him also.' So, all the 
residents of the Heavens would love him and then he is granted the pleasure of the people of the 
earth."
Bukhari:6041 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None will have the sweetness (delight) of Faith (a) till he loves a person and loves 
him only for Allah's sake, (b) and till it becomes dearer to him to be thrown in the fire than to revert to 
disbelief (Heathenism) after Allah has brought him out of it, (c) and till Allah and His Apostle become 
dearer to him than anything else."
Bukhari:6042 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade laughing at a person who passes wind, and said, "How does anyone of you beat 
his wife as he beats the stallion camel and then he may embrace (sleep with) her?" And Hisham said, 
"As he beats his slave"
Bukhari:6043 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said at Mina, "Do you know what day is today?" They (the people) replied, "Allah and 
His Apostle know better," He said "Today is 10th of Dhul-Hijja, the sacred (forbidden) day. Do you 
know what town is this town?" They (the people) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He 
said, "This is the (forbidden) Sacred town (Mecca a sanctuary)." And do you know which month is 
this month?" They (the People) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, ''This is the 
Sacred (forbidden) month ." He added, "Allah has made your blood, your properties and your honor 
Sacred to one another (i.e. Muslims) like the sanctity of this day of yours in this month of yours, in 
this town of yours." (See Hadith No. 797, Vol. 2.)
Bukhari:6044 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (i.e., an evil-doing), and killing him is Kufr 
(disbelief).
Bukhari:6045 Narrated Abu Dhar:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody accuses another of Fusuq (by calling him 'Fasiq' i.e. a 
wicked person) or accuses him of Kufr, such an accusation will revert to him (i.e. the accuser) if his 
companion (the accused) is innocent."
Bukhari:6046 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither a Fahish (one who had a bad tongue) nor a Sabbaba (one who abuses 
others) and he used to say while admonishing somebody, "What is wrong with him? May dust be on 
his forehead!"
Bukhari:6047 Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak:(who was one of the companions who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) underneath the tree 
(Al-Hudaibiya)) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam (i.e. if 
somebody swears by saying that he is a non-Muslim e.g., a Jew or a Christian, etc.) in case he is 
telling a lie, he is really so if his oath is false, and a person is not bound to fulfill a vow about a thing 
which he does not possess. And if somebody commits suicide with anything in this world, he will be 
tortured with that very thing on the Day of Resurrection; And if somebody curses a believer, then his 
sin will be as if he murdered him; And whoever accuses a believer of Kufr (disbelief), then it is as if 
he killed him."
Bukhari:6048 Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad:A man from the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and one of them became angry and his anger became so intense that his face became swollen and 
changed. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know a word the saying of which will cause him to relax if he does say 
it." Then a man went to him and informed him of the statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Seek refuge 
with Allah from Satan." On that, angry man said, 'Do you find anything wrong with me? Am I insane? 
Go away!"
Bukhari:6049 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to inform the people about the (date of the Night of decree (Al-Qadr). There 
happened a quarrel between two Muslim men. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I came out to inform you about the 
Night of Al-Qadr, but as so-and-so and so-and-so quarrelled, so the news about it had been taken 
away; and may be it was better for you. So look for it in the ninth, the seventh, or the fifth (of the last 
ten days of Ramadan).
Bukhari:6050 Narrated Ma'rur:I saw Abu Dhar wearing a Burd (garment) and his slave too was wearing a Burd, so I said (to Abu 
Dhar), "If you take this (Burda of your slave) and wear it (along with yours), you will have a nice suit 
(costume) and you may give him another garment." Abu Dhar said, "There was a quarrel between me 
and another man whose mother was a non-Arab and I called her bad names. The man mentioned 
(complained about) me to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Did you abuse so-and-so?" I said, "Yes" He 
said, "Did you call his mother bad names?" I said, "Yes". He said, "You still have the traits of (the 
Pre-lslamic period of) ignorance." I said. "(Do I still have ignorance) even now in my old age?" He 
said, "Yes, they (slaves or servants) are your brothers, and Allah has put them under your command. 
So the one under whose hand Allah has put his brother, should feed him of what he eats, and give him 
dresses of what he wears, and should not ask him to do a thing beyond his capacity. And if at all he 
asks him to do a hard task, he should help him therein."
Bukhari:6051 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer, offering only two rak`at and then (finished it) with Taslim, and 
went to a piece of wood in front of the mosque and put his hand over it. Abu Bakr and `Umar were 
also present among the people on that day but dared not talk to him (about his unfinished prayer). And 
the hasty people went away, wondering. "Has the prayer been shortened" Among the people there was 
a man whom the Prophet (ﷺ) used to call Dhul-Yadain (the longarmed). He said, "O Allah's Prophet! 
Have you forgotten or has the prayer been shortened?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Neither have I forgotten, 
nor has it been shortened." They (the people) said, "Surely, you have forgotten, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Dhul-Yadain has told the truth." So the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered other two rak`at 
and finished his prayer with Taslim. Then he said Takbir, performed a prostration of ordinary duration 
or longer, then he raised his head and said Takbir and performed another prostration of ordinary 
duration or longer and then raised his head and said Takbir (i.e. he performed the two prostrations of 
Sahu, i.e., forgetfulness).
Bukhari:6052 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by two graves and said, "Both of them (persons in the grave) are being 
tortured, and they are not being tortured for a major sin. This one used not to save himself from being 
soiled with his urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (among the people to rouse 
hostilities, e.g., one goes to a person and tells him that so-and-so says about him such-and-such evil 
things). The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for a green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into two pieces and planted 
one on each grave and said, "It is hoped that their punishment may be abated till those two pieces of 
the leaf get dried." (See Hadith No 215, Vol 1).
Bukhari:6053 Narrated Abu Usaid As-Sa`idi:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best family among the Ansar is the Banu An-Najjar. "
Bukhari:6054 Narrated `Aisha:A man asked permission to enter upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him. What an evil 
brother of his people or a son of his people." But when the man entered, the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to him in a 
very polite manner. (And when that person left) I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You had said what you had 
said, yet you spoke to him in a very polite manner?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Aisha! The worst people 
are those whom the people desert or leave in order to save themselves from their dirty language or 
from their transgression."
Bukhari:6055 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went through the grave-yards of Medina and heard the voices of two humans who 
were being tortured in their graves. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They are being punished, but they are not being 
punished because of a major sin, yet their sins are great. One of them used not to save himself from 
(being soiled with) the urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (Namima)." Then the 
Prophet asked for a green palm tree leaf and split it into two pieces and placed one piece on each 
grave, saying, "I hope that their punishment may be abated as long as these pieces of the leaf are not 
dried."
Bukhari:6056 Narrated Hudhaifa:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A Qattat will not enter Paradise."
Bukhari:6057 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not give up false statements (i.e. telling lies), and evil deeds, and 
speaking bad words to others, Allah is not in need of his (fasting) leaving his food and drink."
Bukhari:6058 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worst people in the Sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection will be the 
double faced people who appear to some people with one face and to other people with another face."
Bukhari:6059 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) divided and distributed (the war booty). An Ansar man said, "By Allah ! 
Muhammad, by this distribution, did not intend to please Allah." So I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
informed him about it whereupon his face became changed with anger and he said, "May Allah 
bestow His Mercy on Moses for he was hurt with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Bukhari:6060 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man praising another man and he was exaggerating in his praise. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said (to him). "You have destroyed (or cut) the back of the man."
Bukhari:6061 Narrated Abu Bakra:A man was mentioned before the Prophet (ﷺ) and another man praised him greatly The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"May Allah's Mercy be on you ! You have cut the neck of your friend." The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated this 
sentence many times and said, "If it is indispensable for anyone of you to praise someone, then he 
should say, 'I think that he is so-and-so," if he really thinks that he is such. Allah is the One Who will 
take his accounts (as He knows his reality) and no-one can sanctify anybody before Allah." (Khalid 
said, "Woe to you," instead of "Allah's Mercy be on you.")
Bukhari:6062 Narrated Salim:that his father said; "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned what he mentioned about (the hanging of) the 
Izar (waist sheet), Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My Izar slackens on one side (without my 
intention)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are not among those (who, out of pride) drag their Izars behind 
them."
Bukhari:6063 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) continued for such-and-such period imagining that he has slept (had sexual relations) 
with his wives, and in fact he did not. One day he said, to me, "O `Aisha! Allah has instructed me 
regarding a matter about which I had asked Him. There came to me two men, one of them sat near my 
feet and the other near my head. The one near my feet, asked the one near my head (pointing at me), 
'What is wrong with this man? The latter replied, 'He is under the effect of magic.' The first one asked, 
'Who had worked magic on him?' The other replied, 'Lubaid bin Asam.' The first one asked, 'What 
material (did he use)?' The other replied, 'The skin of the pollen of a male date tree with a comb and 
the hair stuck to it, kept under a stone in the well of Dharwan."' Then the Prophet (ﷺ) went to that well 
and said, "This is the same well which was shown to me in the dream. The tops of its date-palm trees 
look like the heads of the devils, and its water looks like the Henna infusion." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) 
ordered that those things be taken out. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Won't you disclose (the magic 
object)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cured me and I hate to circulate the evil among the people." 
`Aisha added, "(The magician) Lubaid bin Asam was a man from Bani Zuraiq, an ally of the Jews."
Bukhari:6064 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Beware of suspicion, for suspicion is the worst of false tales; and do not look for 
the others' faults and do not spy, and do not be jealous of one another, and do not desert (cut your 
relation with) one another, and do not hate one another; and O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers (as 
Allah has ordered you!")
Bukhari:6065 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not hate one another, and do not be jealous of one another, and do not desert 
each other, and O, Allah's worshipers! Be brothers. Lo! It is not permissible for any Muslim to desert 
(not talk to) his brother (Muslim) for more than three days."
Bukhari:6066 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Beware of suspicion, for suspicion is the worst of false tales. and do not look 
for the others' faults, and do not do spying on one another, and do not practice Najsh, and do not be 
jealous of one another and do not hate one another, and do not desert (stop talking to) one another. 
And O, Allah's worshipers! Be brothers!"
Bukhari:6067 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion." (And 
Al-Laith said, "These two persons were among the hypocrites.")
Bukhari:6068 Narrated Al-Laith:`Aisha said "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me one day and said, 'O `Aisha! I do not think that so-and-so 
and so-and-so know anything of our religion which we follow."'
Bukhari:6069 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying. "All the sins of my followers will be forgiven except those of the 
Mujahirin (those who commit a sin openly or disclose their sins to the people). An example of such 
disclosure is that a person commits a sin at night and though Allah screens it from the public, then he 
comes in the morning, and says, 'O so-and-so, I did such-and-such (evil) deed yesterday,' though he 
spent his night screened by his Lord (none knowing about his sin) and in the morning he removes 
Allah's screen from himself."
Bukhari:6070 Narrated Safwan bin Muhriz:A man asked Ibn `Umar, "What did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying regarding An-Najwa (secret talk 
between Allah and His believing worshipper on the Day of Judgment)?" He said, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), 
"One of you will come close to his Lord till He will shelter him in His screen and say: Did you 
commit such-and-such sin? He will say, 'Yes.' Then Allah will say: Did you commit such and such 
sin? He will say, 'Yes.' So Allah will make him confess (all his sins) and He will say, 'I screened them 
(your sins) for you in the world, and today I forgive them for you."'
Bukhari:6071 Narrated Haritha bin Wahb:Al-Khuzai: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Shall I inform you about the people of 
     Paradise? They comprise every obscure unimportant humble person, and 
     if he takes Allah's Oath that he will do that thing, Allah will 
     fulfill his oath (by doing that). Shall I inform you about the people 
     of the Fire? They comprise every cruel, violent, proud and conceited 
     person."
Bukhari:6072 Anas bin Malik said, "Any of the female slaves of Medina 
     could take hold of the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and take him wherever 
     she wished."
Bukhari:6073 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) that she was told that `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair (on hearing that she was 
selling or giving something as a gift) said, "By Allah, if `Aisha does not give up this, I will declare her 
incompetent to dispose of her wealth." I said, "Did he (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair) say so?" They 
(people) said, "Yes." `Aisha said, "I vow to Allah that I will never speak to Ibn Az-Zubair." When this 
desertion lasted long, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair sought intercession with her, but she said, "By Allah, I 
will not accept the intercession of anyone for him, and will not commit a sin by breaking my vow." 
When this state of affairs was prolonged on Ibn Az-Zubair (he felt it hard on him), he said to Al- 
Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth, who were from the tribe 
of Bani Zahra, "I beseech you, by Allah, to let me enter upon `Aisha, for it is unlawful for her to vow 
to cut the relation with me." 
So Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman, wrapping their sheets around themselves, asked `Aisha's 
permission saying, "Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be upon you! Shall we come in?" `Aisha 
said, "Come in." They said, "All of us?" She said, "Yes, come in all of you," not knowing that Ibn Az- 
Zubair was also with them. So when they entered, Ibn Az-Zubair entered the screened place and got 
hold of `Aisha and started requesting her to excuse him, and wept. Al-Miswar and `Abdur Rahman 
also started requesting her to speak to him and to accept his repentance. 
They said (to her), "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade what you know of deserting (not speaking to your Muslim 
Brethren), for it is unlawful for any Muslim not to talk to his brother for more than three nights 
(days)." So when they increased their reminding her (of the superiority of having good relation with 
Kith and kin, and of excusing others' sins), and brought her down to a critical situation, she started 
reminding them, and wept, saying, "I have made a vow, and (the question of) vow is a difficult one." 
They (Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman) persisted in their appeal till she spoke with `Abdullah bin Az- 
Zubair and she manumitted forty slaves as an expiation for her vow. Later on, whenever she 
remembered her vow, she used to weep so much that her veil used to become wet with her tears.
Bukhari:6075 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) that she was told that `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair (on hearing that she was 
selling or giving something as a gift) said, "By Allah, if `Aisha does not give up this, I will declare her 
incompetent to dispose of her wealth." I said, "Did he (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair) say so?" They 
(people) said, "Yes." `Aisha said, "I vow to Allah that I will never speak to Ibn Az-Zubair." When this 
desertion lasted long, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair sought intercession with her, but she said, "By Allah, I 
will not accept the intercession of anyone for him, and will not commit a sin by breaking my vow." 
When this state of affairs was prolonged on Ibn Az-Zubair (he felt it hard on him), he said to Al- 
Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth, who were from the tribe 
of Bani Zahra, "I beseech you, by Allah, to let me enter upon `Aisha, for it is unlawful for her to vow 
to cut the relation with me." 
So Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman, wrapping their sheets around themselves, asked `Aisha's 
permission saying, "Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be upon you! Shall we come in?" `Aisha 
said, "Come in." They said, "All of us?" She said, "Yes, come in all of you," not knowing that Ibn Az- 
Zubair was also with them. So when they entered, Ibn Az-Zubair entered the screened place and got 
hold of `Aisha and started requesting her to excuse him, and wept. Al-Miswar and `Abdur Rahman 
also started requesting her to speak to him and to accept his repentance. 
They said (to her), "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade what you know of deserting (not speaking to your Muslim 
Brethren), for it is unlawful for any Muslim not to talk to his brother for more than three nights 
(days)." So when they increased their reminding her (of the superiority of having good relation with 
Kith and kin, and of excusing others' sins), and brought her down to a critical situation, she started 
reminding them, and wept, saying, "I have made a vow, and (the question of) vow is a difficult one." 
They (Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman) persisted in their appeal till she spoke with `Abdullah bin Az- 
Zubair and she manumitted forty slaves as an expiation for her vow. Later on, whenever she 
remembered her vow, she used to weep so much that her veil used to become wet with her tears.
Bukhari:6076 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not hate one another, nor be jealous of one another; and do not desert one 
another, but O Allah's worshipers! Be Brothers! And it is unlawful for a Muslim to desert his brother 
Muslim (and not to talk to him) for more than three nights."
Bukhari:6077 Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a man to desert his brother Muslim for more than three 
nights. (It is unlawful for them that) when they meet, one of them turns his face away from the other, 
and the other turns his face from the former, and the better of the two will be the one who greets the 
other first."
Bukhari:6078 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, " I know whether you are angry or pleased." I said, "How do you know that, 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "When you are pleased, you say, "Yes, by the Lord of Muhammad,' but 
when you are angry, you say, 'No, by the Lord of Abraham!' " I said, "Yes, I do not leave, except your 
name."
Bukhari:6079 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) "I do not remember my parents believing in any religion other than the 
Religion (of Islam), and our being visited by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the morning and in the evening. One 
day, while we were sitting in the house of Abu Bakr (my father) at noon, someone said, 'This is 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) coming at an hour at which he never used to visit us.' Abu Bakr said, 'There must be 
something very urgent that has brought him at this hour.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I have been allowed to go 
out (of Mecca) to migrate.' "
Bukhari:6080 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited a household among the Ansars, and he took a meal with them. When he 
intended to leave, he asked for a place in that house for him, to pray so a mat sprinkled with water was 
put and he offered prayer over it, and invoked for Allah's Blessing upon them (his hosts).
Bukhari:6081 Narrated `Abdullah:`Umar saw a silken cloak over a man (for sale) so he took it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's 
Apostle! Buy this and wear it when the delegate come to you.' He said, 'The silk is worn by one who 
will have no share (in the Here-after).' Some time passed after this event, and then the Prophet (ﷺ) sent a 
(similar) cloak to him. `Umar brought that cloak back to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'You have sent this to 
me, and you said about a similar one what you said?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I have sent it to you so that 
you may get money by selling it.' Because of this, Ibn `Umar used to hate the silken markings on the 
garments.
Bukhari:6082 Narrated Anas:When `Abdur-Rahman came to us, the Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between him and 
Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi`. Once the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As you (O `Abdur-Rahman) have married, give a wedding 
banquet even if with one sheep."
Bukhari:6083 Narrated `Asim:I said to Anas bin Malik, "Did it reach you that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no treaty of brotherhood in 
Islam'?" Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made a treaty (of brotherhood) between the Ansar and the Quraish in 
my home."
Bukhari:6084 Narrated `Aisha:Rifa`a Al-Qurazi divorced his wife irrevocably (i.e. that divorce was the final). Later on `Abdur- 
Rahman bin Az-Zubair married her after him. She came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I 
was Rifa`a's wife and he divorced me thrice, and then I was married to `Abdur-Rahman bin AzZubair, 
who, by Allah has nothing with him except something like this fringe, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)," showing a 
fringe she had taken from her covering sheet. Abu Bakr was sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) while Khalid Ibn 
Sa`id bin Al-As was sitting at the gate of the room waiting for admission. Khalid started calling Abu 
Bakr, "O Abu Bakr! Why don't you reprove this lady from what she is openly saying before Allah's 
Apostle?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did nothing except smiling, and then said (to the lady), "Perhaps you want 
to go back to Rifa`a? No, (it is not possible), unless and until you enjoy the sexual relation with him 
(`Abdur Rahman), and he enjoys the sexual relation with you."
Bukhari:6085 Narrated Sa`d:`Umar bin Al-Khattab asked permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to see him while some Quraishi women 
were sitting with him and they were asking him to give them more financial support while raising 
their voices over the voice of the Prophet. When `Umar asked permission to enter, all of them hurried 
to screen themselves the Prophet (ﷺ) admitted `Umar and he entered, while the Prophet (ﷺ) was smiling. 
`Umar said, "May Allah always keep you smiling, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father and mother be 
sacrificed for you !" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am astonished at these women who were with me. As soon 
as they heard your voice, they hastened to screen themselves." `Umar said, "You have more right, that 
they should be afraid of you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" And then he (`Umar) turned towards them and said, 
"O enemies of your souls! You are afraid of me and not of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The women replied, 
"Yes, for you are sterner and harsher than Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Ibn Al-Khattab! 
By Him in Whose Hands my life is, whenever Satan sees you taking a way, he follows a way other 
than yours!"
Bukhari:6086 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:When Allah Apostle was in Ta'if (trying to conquer it), he said to his companions, "Tomorrow we will 
return (to Medina), if Allah wills." Some of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We will not 
leave till we conquer it." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Therefore, be ready to fight tomorrow." On the following 
day, they (Muslims) fought fiercely (with the people of Ta'if) and suffered many wounds. Then 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow we will return (to Medina), if Allah wills." His companions kept 
quiet this time. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then smiled.
Bukhari:6087 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I have been ruined for I have had sexual relation with my wife 
in Ramadan (while I was fasting)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Manumit a slave." The man said, " I 
cannot afford that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Then) fast for two successive months continuously". The man 
said, "I cannot do that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Then) feed sixty poor persons." The man said, "I have 
nothing (to feed them with)." Then a big basket full of dates was brought to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Where is the questioner? Go and give this in charity." The man said, "(Shall I give this in 
charity) to a poorer person than l? By Allah, there is no family in between these two mountains (of 
Medina) who are poorer than we." The Prophet (ﷺ) then smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and 
said, "Then (feed) your (family with it).
Bukhari:6088 Narrated Anas bin Malik:While I was going along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was wearing a Najrani Burd (sheet) with a thick 
border, a bedouin overtook the Prophet (ﷺ) and pulled his Rida' (sheet) forcibly. I looked at the side of the 
shoulder of the Prophet (ﷺ) and noticed that the edge of the Rida' had left a mark on it because of the 
violence of his pull. The bedouin said, "O Muhammad! Order for me some of Allah's property which 
you have." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned towards him, (smiled) and ordered that he be given something.
Bukhari:6089 Narrated Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me (had never prevented me from entering upon him) since I 
embraced Islam, and whenever he saw me, he would receive me with a smile. Once I told him that I 
could not sit firm on horses. He stroked me on the chest with his hand, and said, "O Allah! Make him 
firm and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man.
Bukhari:6090 Narrated Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me (had never prevented me from entering upon him) since I 
embraced Islam, and whenever he saw me, he would receive me with a smile. Once I told him that I 
could not sit firm on horses. He stroked me on the chest with his hand, and said, "O Allah! Make him 
firm and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man.
Bukhari:6091 Narrated Zainab bint Um Salama:Um Sulaim said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily Allah is not shy of (telling you) the truth. Is it essential 
for a woman to take a bath after she had a wet dream (nocturnal sexual discharge)?" He said, "Yes, if 
she notices discharge. On that Um Salama laughed and said, "Does a woman get a (nocturnal sexual) 
discharge?" He said, "How then does (her) son resemble her (his mother)?"
Bukhari:6092 Narrated `Aisha:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) laughing to an extent that one could see his palate, but he always used to 
smile only.
Bukhari:6093 Narrated Anas:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a Friday while he (the Prophet) was delivering a sermon at Medina, and 
said, "There is lack of rain, so please invoke your Lord to bless us with the rain." The Prophet (ﷺ) looked 
at the sky when no cloud could be detected. Then he invoked Allah for rain. Clouds started gathering 
together and it rained till the Medina valleys started flowing with water. It continued raining till the 
next Friday. Then that man (or some other man) stood up while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Friday 
sermon, and said, "We are drowned; Please invoke your Lord to withhold it (rain) from us" The 
Prophet smiled and said twice or thrice, "O Allah! Please let it rain round about us and not upon us." 
The clouds started dispersing over Medina to the right and to the left, and it rained round about 
Medina and not upon Medina. Allah showed them (the people) the miracle of His Prophet and His 
response to his invocation.
Bukhari:6094 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Truthfulness leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Paradise. And a 
man keeps on telling the truth until he becomes a truthful person. Falsehood leads to Al-Fajur (i.e. 
wickedness, evil-doing), and Al-Fajur (wickedness) leads to the (Hell) Fire, and a man may keep on 
telling lies till he is written before Allah, a liar."
Bukhari:6095 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three: Whenever he speaks, he tells a lie; and 
whenever he promises, he breaks his promise; and whenever he is entrusted, he betrays (proves to be 
dishonest)".
Bukhari:6096 Narrated Samura bin Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream), two men came to me." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) narrated the story 
(saying), "They said, 'The person, the one whose cheek you saw being torn away (from the mouth to 
the ear) was a liar and used to tell lies and the people would report those lies on his authority till they 
spread all over the world. So he will be punished like that till the Day of Resurrection."'
Bukhari:6097 Narrated Hudhaifa:From among the people, Ibn Um `Abd greatly resembled Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s in solemn gate and good 
appearance of piety and in calmness and sobriety from the time he goes out of his house till he returns 
to it. But we do not know how he behaves with his family when he is alone with them.
Bukhari:6098 Narrated Tariq:`Abdullah said, "The best talk is Allah's Book (Qur'an), and the best guidance is the guidance of 
Muhammad."
Bukhari:6099 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: None is more patient than Allah against the harmful saying. He hears from the 
people they ascribe children to Him, yet He gives them health and (supplies them with) provision."
Bukhari:6100 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) divided and distributed something as he used to do for some of his distributions. A man 
from the Ansar said, "By Allah, in this division the pleasure of Allah has not been intended." I said, "I 
will definitely tell this to the Prophet (ﷺ) ." So I went to him while he was sitting with his companions and 
told him of it secretly. That was hard upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and the color of his face changed, and he 
became so angry that I wished I had not told him. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Moses was harmed with 
more than this, yet he remained patient."
Bukhari:6101 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) did something and allowed his people to do it, but some people refrained from doing it. 
When the Prophet (ﷺ) learned of that, he delivered a sermon, and after having sent Praises to Allah, he 
said, "What is wrong with such people as refrain from doing a thing that I do? By Allah, I know Allah 
better than they, and I am more afraid of Him than they."
Bukhari:6102 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy than a virgin in her separate room. And if he saw a thing which he disliked, 
we would recognize that (feeling) in his face.
Bukhari:6103 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a man says to his brother, O Kafir 
     (disbeliever)!' Then surely one of them is such (i.e., a Kafir). "
Bukhari:6104 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If anyone says to his brother, 'O misbeliever! 
     Then surely, one of them such."
Bukhari:6105 Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam (i.e. if he swears by saying that he 
is a non-Muslim in case he is telling a lie), then he is as he says if his oath is false and whoever 
commits suicide with something, will be punished with the same thing in the (Hell) fire, and cursing a 
believer is like murdering him, and whoever accuses a believer of disbelief, then it is as if he had 
killed him."
Bukhari:6106 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Mu`adh bin Jabal used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead his people in prayer. Once he led 
the people in prayer and recited Surat-al-Baqara. A man left (the row of the praying people) and 
offered (light) prayer (separately) and went away. When Mu`adh came to know about it, he said. "He 
(that man) is a hypocrite." Later that man heard what Mu`adh said about him, so he came to the 
Prophet and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are people who work with our own hands and irrigate (our 
farms) with our camels. Last night Mu`adh led us in the (night) prayer and he recited Sura-al-Baqara, 
so I offered my prayer separately, and because of that, he accused me of being a hypocrite." The 
Prophet called Mu`adh and said thrice, "O Mu`adh! You are putting the people to trials? Recite 'Washshamsi 
wad-uhaha' (91) or'Sabbih isma Rabbi ka-l-A'la' (87) or the like."
Bukhari:6107 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "Whoever amongst you swears, (saying by error) in his oath 'By Al-Lat and Al- 
Uzza', then he should say, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.' And whoever says to his 
companions, 'Come let me gamble' with you, then he must give something in charity (as an expiation 
for such a sin)." (See Hadith No. 645)
Bukhari:6108 Narrated Ibn `Umar:that he found `Umar bin Al-Khattab in a group of people and he was swearing by his father. So 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called them, saying, "Verily! Allah forbids you to swear by your fathers. If one has to 
take an oath, he should swear by Allah or otherwise keep quiet."
Bukhari:6109 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me while there was a curtain having pictures (of animals) in the house. His 
face got red with anger, and then he got hold of the curtain and tore it into pieces. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Such people as paint these pictures will receive the severest punishment on the Day of Resurrection 
."
Bukhari:6110 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said "I keep away from the morning prayer only because such and 
such person prolongs the prayer when he leads us in it. The narrator added: I had never seen Allah's 
Apostle more furious in giving advice than he was on that day. He said, "O people! There are some 
among you who make others dislike good deeds) cause the others to have aversion (to congregational 
prayers). Beware! Whoever among you leads the people in prayer should not prolong it, because 
among them there are the sick, the old, and the needy." (See Hadith No. 670, Vol 1)
Bukhari:6111 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying, he saw sputum (on the wall) of the mosque, in the direction of the 
Qibla, and so he scraped it off with his hand, and the sign of disgust (was apparent from his face) and 
then said, "Whenever anyone of you is in prayer, he should not spit in front of him (in prayer) because 
Allah is in front of him."
Bukhari:6112 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:A man asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about "Al-Luqata" (a lost fallen purse or a thing picked up by 
somebody). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You should announce it publicly for one year, and then remember and 
recognize the tying material of its container, and then you can spend it. If its owner came to you, then 
you should pay him its equivalent." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about a lost sheep?" The 
Prophet said, "Take it because it is for you, for your brother, or for the wolf." The man again said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about a lost camel?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became very angry and furious and his 
cheeks became red (or his face became red), and he said, "You have nothing to do with it (the camel) 
for it has its food and its water container with it till it meets its owner."
Bukhari:6113 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a small room (with a palm leaf mat). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out (of his house) 
and prayed in it. Some men came and joined him in his prayer. Then again the next night they came 
for the prayer, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed and did not come out to them. So they raised their voices 
and knocked the door with small stones (to draw his attention). He came out to them in a state of 
anger, saying, "You are still insisting (on your deed, i.e. Tarawih prayer in the mosque) that I thought 
that this prayer (Tarawih) might become obligatory on you. So you people, offer this prayer at your 
homes, for the best prayer of a person is the one which he offers at home, except the compulsory 
(congregational) prayer."
Bukhari:6114 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The strong is not the one who overcomes the people by his strength, but the 
strong is the one who controls himself while in anger."
Bukhari:6115 Narrated Sulaiman bin Sarad:Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) while we were sitting with him. One of the two 
abused his companion furiously and his face became red. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know a word (sentence) 
the saying of which will cause him to relax if this man says it. Only if he said, "I seek refuge with 
Allah from Satan, the outcast.' " So they said to that (furious) man, 'Don't you hear what the Prophet (ﷺ) is 
saying?" He said, "I am not mad."
Bukhari:6116 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ) , "Advise me! "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not become angry." The 
man asked (the same) again and again, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said in each case, "Do not become angry."
Bukhari:6117 Narrated Abu As-Sawar Al-Adawi:`Imran bin Husain said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Haya' (pious shyness from committing religeous 
indiscretions) does not bring anything except good." Thereupon Bashir bin Ka`b said, 'It is written in 
the wisdom paper: Haya' leads to solemnity; Haya' leads to tranquility (peace of mind)." 
`Imran said to him, "I am narrating to you the saying of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and you are speaking about 
your paper (wisdom book)?"
Bukhari:6118 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a man who was admonishing his brother regarding Haya' (pious shyness from 
committing religeous indiscretions) and was saying, "You are very shy, and I am afraid that might 
harm you." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave him, for Haya' is (a part) of Faith."
Bukhari:6119 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religeous indiscretions) than 
a veiled virgin girl. (See Hadith No. 762, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:6120 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'One of the sayings of the early Prophets which the people have got is: If you don't 
feel ashamed (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religeous indiscretions) do whatever you 
like." (See Hadith No 690, 691, Vol 4)
Bukhari:6121 Narrated Um Salama:Um Sulaim came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily, Allah does not feel shy to 
tell the truth. If a woman gets a nocturnal sexual discharge (has a wet dream), is it essential for her to 
take a bath? He replied, "Yes if she notices a discharge."
Bukhari:6122 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer is like a green tree, the leaves of which do not fall." The 
people said. "It is such-and-such tree: It is such-and-such tree." I intended to say that it was the 
datepalm tree, but I was a young boy and felt shy (to answer). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is the date-palm 
tree." Ibn `Umar added, " I told that to `Umar who said, 'Had you said it, I would have preferred it to 
such-and such a thing."
Bukhari:6123 Narrated Thabit:that he heard Anas saying, "A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) offering herself to him in marriage, saying, 
"Have you got any interest in me (i.e. would you like to marry me?)" Anas's daughter said, "How 
shameless that woman was!" On that Anas said, "She is better than you, for she presented herself to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (for marriage).
Bukhari:6124 Narrated Abu Musa:that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent him and Mu`adh bin Jabal to Yemen, he said to them, "Facilitate things 
for the people (treat the people in the most agreeable way), and do not make things difficult for them, 
and give them glad tidings, and let them not have aversion (i.e. to make the people hate good deeds) 
and you should both work in cooperation and mutual understanding, obey each other." Abu Musa 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are in a land in which a drink named Al Bit' is prepared from honey, and 
another drink named Al-Mizr is prepared from barley." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "All intoxicants 
(i.e. all alcoholic drinks) are prohibited."
Bukhari:6125 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Make things easy for the people, and do not make it difficult for them, and make 
them calm (with glad tidings) and do not repulse (them ).
Bukhari:6126 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was given the choice of one of two matters he would choose the easier of 
the two as long as it was not sinful to do so, but if it was sinful, he would not approach it. Allah's 
Apostle never took revenge over anybody for his own sake but (he did) only when Allah's legal 
bindings were outraged, in which case he would take revenge for Allah's sake." (See Hadith No. 760. 
Vol. 4)
Bukhari:6127 Narrated Al-Azraq bin Qais:We were in the city of Al-Ahwaz on the bank of a river which had dried up. Then Abu Barza Al- 
Aslami came riding a horse and he started praying and let his horse loose. The horse ran away, so Abu 
Barza interrupted his prayer and went after the horse till he caught it and brought it, and then he 
offered his prayer. There was a man amongst us who was (from the Khawari) having a different 
opinion. He came saying. "Look at this old man! He left his prayer because of a horse." On that Abu 
Barza came to us and said, "Since the time I left Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), nobody has admonished me; My 
house is very far from this place, and if I had carried on praying and left my horse, I could not have 
reached my house till night." Then Abu Barza mentioned that he had been in the company of the 
Prophet, and that he had seen his leniency.
Bukhari:6128 Narrated Abu Huraira:A bedouin urinated in the mosque, and the people rushed to beat him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered them to 
leave him and pour a bucket or a tumbler (full) of water over the place where he has passed urine. The 
Prophet then said, " You have been sent to make things easy (for the people) and you have not been 
sent to make things difficult for them."
Bukhari:6129 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to mix with us to the extent that he would say to a younger brother of mine, 'O 
Aba `Umair! What did the Nughair (a kind of bird) do?"
Bukhari:6130 Narrated `Aisha:I used to play with the dolls in the presence of the Prophet, and my girl friends also used to play with 
me. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter (my dwelling place) they used to hide themselves, but the 
Prophet would call them to join and play with me. (The playing with the dolls and similar images is 
forbidden, but it was allowed for `Aisha at that time, as she was a little girl, not yet reached the age of 
puberty.) (Fath-ul-Bari page 143, Vol.13)
Bukhari:6131 Narrated Aisha:A man asked permission to see the Prophet. He said, "Let Him come in; What an evil man of the tribe 
he is! (Or, What an evil brother of the tribe he is). 
But when he entered, the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to him gently in a polite manner. I said to him, "O Allah's 
Apostle! You have said what you have said, then you spoke to him in a very gentle and polite manner? 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worse people, in the sight of Allah are those whom the people leave 
(undisturbed) to save themselves from their dirty language."
Bukhari:6132 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Mulaika:The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a gift of a few silken cloaks with gold buttons. He distributed them amongst 
some of his companions and put aside one of them for Makhrama. When Makhrama came, the 
Prophet said, "I kept this for you." (Aiyub, the sub-narrator held his garment to show how the Prophet (ﷺ) 
showed the cloak to Makhrama who had something unfavorable about his temper.)
Bukhari:6133 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer is not stung twice (by something) out of one and the same hole."
Bukhari:6134 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me and said, "Have I not been informed that you offer prayer all the 
night and fast the whole day?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Do not do so; Offer prayer at night and also 
sleep; Fast for a few days and give up fasting for a few days because your body has a right on you, 
and your eye has a right on you, and your guest has a right on you, and your wife has a right on you. I 
hope that you will have a long life, and it is sufficient for you to fast for three days a month as the 
reward of a good deed, is multiplied ten times, that means, as if you fasted the whole year." I insisted 
(on fasting more) so I was given a hard instruction. I said, "I can do more than that (fasting)" The 
Prophet said, "Fast three days every week." But as I insisted (on fasting more) so I was burdened. I 
said, "I can fast more than that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fast as Allah's prophet David used to fast." I said, 
"How was the fasting of the prophet David?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One half of a year (i.e. he used to fast 
on alternate days). '
Bukhari:6135 Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Ka`bi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously. 
The guest's reward is: To provide him with a superior type of food for a night and a day and a guest is 
to be entertained with food for three days, and whatever is offered beyond that, is regarded as 
something given in charity. And it is not lawful for a guest to stay with his host for such a long period 
so as to put him in a critical position."Narrated Malik:Similarly as above (156) adding, "Who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or 
keep quiet." (i.e. abstain from dirty and evil talk, and should think before uttering).
Bukhari:6136 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should not hurt his neighbor and 
whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously and whoever believes 
in Allah and the Last Day, should speak what is good or keep silent."
Bukhari:6137 Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You send us out and it happens that we have to stay with such people as 
do not entertain us. What do you think about it?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "If you stay with some 
people and they entertain you as they should for a guest, accept is; but if they do not do then you 
should take from them the right of the guest, which they ought to give."
Bukhari:6138 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously; 
and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should unite the bond of kinship (i.e. keep good 
relation with his kith and kin); and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should talk what is 
good or keep quiet."
Bukhari:6139 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between Salman and Abu Darda'. Salman paid a visit 
to Abu ad-Darda and found Um Ad-Darda' dressed in shabby clothes and asked her why she was in 
that state.?" She replied, "Your brother, Abu Ad-Darda is not interested in the luxuries of this world." 
In the meantime Abu Ad-Darda came and prepared a meal for him (Salman), and said to him, 
"(Please) eat for I am fasting." Salman said, "I am not going to eat, unless you eat." So Abu Ad-Darda' 
ate. When it was night, Abu Ad-Darda' got up (for the night prayer). Salman said (to him), "Sleep," 
and he slept. Again Abu- Ad-Darda' got up (for the prayer), and Salman said (to him), "Sleep." When 
it was the last part of the night, Salman said to him, "Get up now (for the prayer)." So both of them 
offered their prayers and Salman said to Abu Ad-Darda',"Your Lord has a right on you; and your soul 
has a right on you; and your family has a right on you; so you should give the rights of all those who 
have a right on you). Later on Abu Ad-Darda' visited the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The 
Prophet, said, "Salman has spoken the truth."
Bukhari:6140 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr:Abu Bakr invited a group of people and told me, "Look after your guests." Abu Bakr added, I am 
going to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) and you should finish serving them before I return." `Abdur-Rahman said, 
So I went at once and served them with what was available at that time in the house and requested 
them to eat." They said, "Where is the owner of the house (i.e., Abu Bakr)?" `Abdur-Rahman said, 
"Take your meal." They said, "We will not eat till the owner of the house comes." `Abdur-Rahman 
said, "Accept your meal from us, for if my father comes and finds you not having taken your meal yet, 
we will be blamed severely by him, but they refused to take their meals . So I was sure that my father 
would be angry with me. When he came, I went away (to hide myself) from him. He asked, "What 
have you done (about the guests)?" They informed him the whole story. Abu Bakr called, "O `Abdur 
Rahman!" I kept quiet. He then called again. "O `Abdur-Rahman!" I kept quiet and he called again, 
"O ignorant (boy)! I beseech you by Allah, if you hear my voice, then come out!" I came out and said, 
"Please ask your guests (and do not be angry with me)." They said, "He has told the truth; he brought 
the meal to us." He said, "As you have been waiting for me, by Allah, I will not eat of it tonight." 
They said, "By Allah, we will not eat of it till you eat of it." He said, I have never seen a night like this 
night in evil. What is wrong with you? Why don't you accept your meals of hospitality from us?" (He 
said to me), "Bring your meal." I brought it to him, and he put his hand in it, saying, "In the name of 
Allah. The first (state of fury) was because of Satan." So Abu Bakr ate and so did his guests.
Bukhari:6141 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr:Abu Bakr came with a guest or some guests, but he stayed late at night with the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he 
came, my mother said (to him), "Have you been detained from your guest or guests tonight?" He said, 
"Haven't you served the supper to them?" She replied, "We presented the meal to him (or to them), but 
he (or they) refused to eat." Abu Bakr became angry, rebuked me and invoked Allah to cause (my) 
ears to be cut and swore not to eat of it!" I hid myself, and he called me, "O ignorant (boy)!" Abu 
Bakr's wife swore that she would not eat of it and so the guests or the guest swore that they would not 
eat of it till he ate of it. Abu Bakr said, "All that happened was from Satan." So he asked for the meals 
and ate of it, and so did they. Whenever they took a handful of the meal, the meal grew (increased) 
from underneath more than that mouthful. He said (to his wife), "O, sister of Bani Firas! What is 
this?" She said, "O, pleasure of my eyes! The meal is now more than it had been before we started 
eating'' So they ate of it and sent the rest of that meal to the Prophet. It is said that the Prophet (ﷺ) also ate 
of it.
Bukhari:6142 Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij and Sahl bin Abu Hathma:`Abdullah bin Sahl and Muhaiyisa bin Mas`ud went to Khaibar and they dispersed in the gardens of 
the date-palm trees. `Abdullah bin Sahl was murdered. Then `Abdur-Rahman bin Sahl, Huwaiyisa and 
Muhaiyisa, the two sons of Mas`ud, came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and spoke about the case of their (murdered) 
friend. `Abdur-Rahman who was the youngest of them all, started talking. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the 
older (among you) speak first." So they spoke about the case of their (murdered) friend. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Will fifty of you take an oath whereby you will have the right to receive the blood money of 
your murdered man," (or said, "..your companion"). They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The murder was a 
thing we did not witness." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then the Jews will release you from the oath, if fifty of 
them (the Jews) should take an oath to contradict your claim." They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! They 
are disbelievers (and they will take a false oath)." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) himself paid the blood money 
to them.
Bukhari:6143 Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij and Sahl bin Abu Hathma:`Abdullah bin Sahl and Muhaiyisa bin Mas`ud went to Khaibar and they dispersed in the gardens of 
the date-palm trees. `Abdullah bin Sahl was murdered. Then `Abdur-Rahman bin Sahl, Huwaiyisa and 
Muhaiyisa, the two sons of Mas`ud, came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and spoke about the case of their (murdered) 
friend. `Abdur-Rahman who was the youngest of them all, started talking. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the 
older (among you) speak first." So they spoke about the case of their (murdered) friend. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Will fifty of you take an oath whereby you will have the right to receive the blood money of 
your murdered man," (or said, "..your companion"). They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The murder was a 
thing we did not witness." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then the Jews will release you from the oath, if fifty of 
them (the Jews) should take an oath to contradict your claim." They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! They 
are disbelievers (and they will take a false oath)." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) himself paid the blood money 
to them.
Bukhari:6144 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Inform me of a tree which resembles a Muslim, giving its fruits at every season 
by the permission of its Lord, and the leaves of which do not fall." I thought of the date-palm tree, but 
I disliked to speak because Abu Bakr and `Umar were present there. When nobody spoke, the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "It is the date-palm tree" When I came out with my father, I said, "O father! It came to my mind 
that it was the date-palm tree." He said, "What prevented you from saying it?" Had you said it, it 
would have been more dearer to me than such-and-such a thing (fortune)." I said, "Nothing prevented 
me but the fact that neither you nor Abu Bakr spoke, so I disliked to speak (in your presence).
Bukhari:6145 Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Some poetry contains wisdom."
Bukhari:6146 Narrated Jundub:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was walking, a stone hit his foot and stumbled and his toe was injured. He then 
(quoting a poetic verse) said, "You are not more than a toe which has been bathed in blood in Allah's 
Cause."
Bukhari:6147 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most true words said by a poet were the words of Labid. He said, i.e. 'Verily, 
everything except Allah is perishable and Umaiya bin Abi As-Salt was about to embrace Islam .
Bukhari:6148 Narrated Salama bin Al-Aqwa:We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Khaibar and we travelled during the night. A man amongst the 
people said to 'Amir bin Al-Aqwa', "Won't you let us hear your poetry?" 'Amir was a poet, and so he 
got down and started (chanting Huda) reciting for the people, poetry that keep pace with the camel's 
foot steps, saying, "O Allah! Without You we would not have been guided on the right path, neither 
would we have given in charity, nor would we have prayed. So please forgive us what we have 
committed. Let all of us be sacrificed for Your cause and when we meet our enemy, make our feet 
firm and bestow peace and calmness on us and if they (our enemy) will call us towards an unjust thing 
we will refuse. 
The infidels have made a hue and cry to ask others help against us. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who is that 
driver (of the camels)?" They said, "He is 'Amir bin Al-Aqwa."' He said, "May Allah bestow His 
mercy on him." A man among the people said, Has Martyrdom been granted to him, O Allah's 
Prophet! Would that you let us enjoy his company longer." We reached (the people of) Khaibar and 
besieged them till we were stricken with severe hunger but Allah helped the Muslims conquer 
Khaibar. In the evening of its conquest the people made many fires. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "What are 
those fires? For what are you making fires?" They said, "For cooking meat." He asked, "What kind of 
meat?" They said, "Donkeys' meat." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Throw away the meat and break the 
cooking pots." A man said, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we throw away the meat and wash the cooking 
pots?" He said, "You can do that too." When the army files aligned in rows (for the battle), 'Amir's 
sword was a short one, and while attacking a Jew with it in order to hit him, the sharp edge of the 
sword turned back and hit 'Amir's knee and caused him to die. 
When the Muslims returned (from the battle), Salama said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw me pale and said, 
'What is wrong with you?"' I said, "Let my parents be sacrificed for you! The people claim that all the 
deeds of Amir have been annulled." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who said so?" I replied, "So-and-so and soand- 
so and Usaid bin Al-Hudair Al-Ansari said, 'Whoever says so is telling a lie. Verily, 'Amir will 
have double reward."' (While speaking) the Prophet (ﷺ) put two of his fingers together to indicate that, 
and added, "He was really a hard-working man and a Mujahid (devout fighter in Allah's Cause) and 
rarely have there lived in it (i.e., Medina or the battle-field) an "Arab like him."
Bukhari:6149 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to some of his wives among whom there was Um Sulaim, and said, "May Allah be 
merciful to you, O Anjasha! Drive the camels slowly, as they are carrying glass vessels!" Abu Qalaba 
said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said a sentence (i.e. the above metaphor) which, had anyone of you said it, you 
would have admonished him for it".
Bukhari:6150 Narrated `Aisha:Hassan bin Thabit asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to lampoon the pagans (in verse). Allah's 
Apostle said, "What about my fore-fathers (ancestry)?' Hassan said (to the Prophet) "I will take you 
out of them as a hair is taken out of dough." 
Narrated Hisham bin `Urwa that his father said, "I called Hassan with bad names in front of `Aisha." 
She said, "Don't call him with bad names because he used to defend Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (against the 
pagans).
Bukhari:6151 Narrated Al-Haitham bin Abu Sinan:that he heard Abu Huraira in his narration, mentioning that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim brother of 
yours who does not say dirty words." and by that he meant Ibn Rawaha, "said (in verse): 'We have 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with us who recites the Holy Qur'an in the early morning time. He gave us guidance 
and light while we were blind and astray, so our hearts are sure that whatever he says, will certainly 
happen. He does not touch his bed at night, being busy in worshipping Allah while the pagans are 
sound asleep in their beds.' "
Bukhari:6152 Narrated Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf:that he heard Hassan bin Thabit Al-Ansari asking the witness of Abu Huraira, saying, "O Abu- 
Huraira! I beseech you by Allah (to tell me). Did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying' 'O Hassan ! Reply 
on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). O Allah ! Support him (Hassan) with the Holy Spirit (Gabriel).'?" Abu 
Huraira said, "Yes."
Bukhari:6153 Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Lampoon them (the pagans) in verse, and Gabriel is with you."
Bukhari:6154 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is better for a man to fill the inside of his body with pus than to fill it with 
poetry."
Bukhari:6155 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); said, "It is better for anyone of you that the inside of his body be filled with pus 
which may consume his body, than it be filled with poetry."
Bukhari:6156 Narrated `Aisha:Allah, the brother of Abu Al-Qu'ais asked my permission to enter after the verses of Al-Hijab (veiling 
the ladies) was revealed, and I said, "By Allah, I will not admit him unless I take permission of Allah's 
Apostle for it was not the brother of Al-Qu'ais who had suckled me, but it was the wife of Al-Qu'ais, 
who had suckled me." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me, and I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The man 
has not nursed me but his wife has nursed me." He said, "Admit him because he is your uncle (not 
from blood relation, but because you have been nursed by his wife), Taribat Yaminuki." `Urwa said, 
"Because of this reason, ' Aisha used to say: Foster suckling relations render all those things 
(marriages etc.) illegal which are illegal because of the corresponding blood relations." (See Hadith 
No. 36, Vol. 7)
Bukhari:6157 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) intended to return home after the performance of the Hajj, and he saw Safiya standing at 
the entrance of her tent, depressed and sad because she got her menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Aqra 
Halqa! --An expression used in the Quraish dialect--"You will detain us." The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked 
(her), "Did you perform the Tawaf Al-Ifada on the Day of Sacrifice (10th of Dhul-Hijja)?" She said, 
"Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then you can leave (with us).
Bukhari:6158 Narrated Um Hani:(the daughter of Abu Talib) I visited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of the Conquest of Mecca and found 
him taking a bath, and his daughter, Fatima was screening him. When I greeted him, he said, "Who is 
it?" I replied, "I am Um Hani, the daughter of Abu Talib." He said, "Welcome, O Um Hani ! " When 
the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished his bath, he stood up and offered eight rak`at of prayer while he was wrapped 
in a single garment. When he had finished his prayer, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My maternal brother 
assumes (or claims) that he will murder some man whom I have given shelter, i.e., so-and-so bin 
Hubaira." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Um Hani! We shelter him whom you have sheltered." Um Hani 
added, "That happened in the forenoon."
Bukhari:6159 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said (to him). "Ride it." The man 
said, "It is a Bandana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it." The man said, "It is a Bandana." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, Ride on it, woe to you!"
Bukhari:6160 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said to him, "Ride on it." The 
man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is a Bandana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it, woe to you!" on the 
second or third time.
Bukhari:6161 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on a journey and he had a black slave called Anjasha, and he was driving the 
camels (very fast, and there were women riding on those camels). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka 
(May Allah be merciful to you), O Anjasha! Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels 
(women)!"
Bukhari:6162 Narrated Abu Bakra:A man praised another man in front of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "Wailaka (Woe on you) ! 
You have cut the neck of your brother!" The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If it is indispensable for anyone of you 
to praise a person, then he should say, "I think that such-and-such person (is so-and-so), and Allah is 
the one who will take his accounts (as he knows his reality) and none can sanctify anybody before 
Allah (and that only if he knows well about that person.)".
Bukhari:6163 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was distributing (war booty etc.) one day, Dhul Khawaisira, a man from the tribe of 
Bani Tamim, said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Act justly." The Prophets said, "Woe to you! Who else would 
act justly if I did not act justly?" `Umar said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "Allow me to chop his neck off." The 
Prophet said, "No, for he has companions (who are apparently so pious that) if anyone of (you 
compares his prayer with) their prayer, he will consider his prayer inferior to theirs, and similarly his 
fasting inferior to theirs, but they will desert Islam (go out of religion) as an arrow goes through the 
victim's body (games etc.) in which case if its Nasl is examined nothing will be seen thereon, and if its 
Nady is examined, nothing will be seen thereon, and if its Qudhadh is examined, nothing will be seen 
thereon, for the arrow has gone out too fast even for the excretions and blood to smear over it. Such 
people will come out at the time of difference among the (Muslim) people and the sign by which they 
will be recognized, will be a man whose one of the two hands will look like the breast of a woman or 
a lump of flesh moving loosely." Abu Sa`id added, "I testify that I heard that from the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
also testify that I was with `Ali when `Ali fought against those people. The man described by the 
Prophet was searched for among the killed, and was found, and he was exactly as the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
described him." (See Hadith No. 807, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:6164 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am ruined!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you) !" The man said, "I have done sexual intercourse with my 
wife while fasting in Ramadan." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Manumit a slave." The man said, " I cannot afford 
that. " The Prophet (ﷺ) said; "Then fast for two successive months." The man said, " I have no power to 
do so." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then feed sixty poor persons." The man said, "I have nothing (to feed sixty 
persons). Later a basket full of dates were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said (to the man), "Take it 
and give it in charity." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I give it to people other than my 
family? By Him in Whose Hand my life is, there is nobody poorer than me in the whole city of 
Medina." The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and said, "Take it." Az-Zuhri said 
(that the Prophet (ﷺ) said). "Wailaka."
Bukhari:6165 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Inform me about the emigration." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka 
(May Allah be merciful to you)! The question of emigration is a difficult one. Have you got some 
camels?" The bedouin said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you pay their Zakat?" He said, "Yes." The 
Prophet said, "Go on doing like this from beyond the seas, for Allah will not let your deeds go in 
vain."
Bukhari:6166 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailakum" (woe to you) or "waihakum" (May Allah be merciful to you)." Shu`ba 
is not sure as to which was the right word. "Do not become disbelievers after me by cutting the necks 
of one another."
Bukhari:6167 Narrated Anas:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! When will The Hour be established?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailaka (Woe to you), What have you prepared for it?" The bedouin said, "I have 
not prepared anything for it, except that I love Allah and H is Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will 
be with those whom you love." We (the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) said, "And will we too be so? 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." So we became very glad on that day. In the meantime, a slave of Al-Mughira 
passed by, and he was of the same age as I was. The Prophet (ﷺ) said. "If this (slave) should live long, he 
will not reach the geriatric old age, but the Hour will be established."
Bukhari:6168 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Bukhari:6169 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you say about a man who loves 
some people but cannot catch up with their good deeds?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with 
those whom he loves."
Bukhari:6170 Narrated Abu Musa:It was said to the Prophet; , "A man may love some people but he cannot catch up with their good 
deeds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Bukhari:6171 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "When will the Hour be established O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) . said, 
"What have you prepared for it?" The man said, " I haven't prepared for it much of prayers or fast or 
alms, but I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with those whom you love."
Bukhari:6172 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Ibn Saiyad "I have hidden something for you in my mind; What is it?" He said, 
"Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa."
Bukhari:6173 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and a group of his companions to Ibn Saiyad. 
They found him playing with the boys in the fort or near the Hillocks of Bani Maghala. Ibn Saiyad 
was nearing his puberty at that time, and he did not notice the arrival of the Prophet (ﷺ) till Allah's 
Apostle stroked him on the back with his hand and said, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" 
Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the Apostle of the unlettered ones 
(illiterates)". Then Ibn Saiyad said to the Prophets . "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The 
Prophet denied that, saying, "I believe in Allah and all His Apostles," and then said to Ibn Saiyad, 
"What do you see?" Ibn Saiyad said, "True people and liars visit me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have 
been confused as to this matter." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "I have kept something for you (in my 
mind)." Ibn Saiyad said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa (you should be ashamed) for you can 
not cross your limits." `Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop off h is neck." Allah's 
Apostle said (to `Umar). "Should this person be him (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) then you cannot over-power him; 
and should he be someone else, then it will be no use your killing him." `Abdullah bin `Umar added: 
Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Ubai bin Ka`b Al-Ansari (once again) went to the garden in which Ibn 
Saiyad was present. 
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the garden, he started hiding behind the trunks of the date-palms 
intending to hear something from Ibn Saiyad before the latter could see him. Ibn Saiyad was Lying on 
his bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his mumur were heard. Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the 
Prophet and said, "O Saf (the nickname of Ibn Saiyad)! Here is Muhammad!" Ibn Saiyad stopped his 
murmuring. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If his mother had kept quiet, then I would have learnt more about 
him." `Abdullah added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up before the people (delivering a sermon), and after 
praising and glorifying Allah as He deserved, he mentioned the Ad-Dajjal saying, "I warn you against 
him, and there has been no prophet but warned his followers against him. Noah warned his followers 
against him but I am telling you about him, something which no prophet has told his people of, and 
that is: Know that he is blind in one eye where as Allah is not so."
Bukhari:6175 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and a group of his companions to Ibn Saiyad. 
They found him playing with the boys in the fort or near the Hillocks of Bani Maghala. Ibn Saiyad 
was nearing his puberty at that time, and he did not notice the arrival of the Prophet (ﷺ) till Allah's 
Apostle stroked him on the back with his hand and said, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" 
Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the Apostle of the unlettered ones 
(illiterates)". Then Ibn Saiyad said to the Prophets . "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The 
Prophet denied that, saying, "I believe in Allah and all His Apostles," and then said to Ibn Saiyad, 
"What do you see?" Ibn Saiyad said, "True people and liars visit me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have 
been confused as to this matter." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "I have kept something for you (in my 
mind)." Ibn Saiyad said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa (you should be ashamed) for you can 
not cross your limits." `Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop off h is neck." Allah's 
Apostle said (to `Umar). "Should this person be him (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) then you cannot over-power him; 
and should he be someone else, then it will be no use your killing him." `Abdullah bin `Umar added: 
Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Ubai bin Ka`b Al-Ansari (once again) went to the garden in which Ibn 
Saiyad was present. 
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the garden, he started hiding behind the trunks of the date-palms 
intending to hear something from Ibn Saiyad before the latter could see him. Ibn Saiyad was Lying on 
his bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his mumur were heard. Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the 
Prophet and said, "O Saf (the nickname of Ibn Saiyad)! Here is Muhammad!" Ibn Saiyad stopped his 
murmuring. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If his mother had kept quiet, then I would have learnt more about 
him." `Abdullah added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up before the people (delivering a sermon), and after 
praising and glorifying Allah as He deserved, he mentioned the Ad-Dajjal saying, "I warn you against 
him, and there has been no prophet but warned his followers against him. Noah warned his followers 
against him but I am telling you about him, something which no prophet has told his people of, and 
that is: Know that he is blind in one eye where as Allah is not so."
Bukhari:6176 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the delegation of `Abdul Qais came to the Prophet, he said, "Welcome, O the delegation who 
have come! Neither you will have disgrace, nor you will regret." They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We 
are a group from the tribe of Ar-Rabi`a, and between you and us there is the tribe of Mudar and we 
cannot come to you except in the sacred months. So please order us to do something good (religious 
deeds) so that we may enter Paradise by doing that, and also that we may order our people who are 
behind us (whom we have left behind at home) to follow it." He said, "Four and four:" offer prayers 
perfectly , pay the Zakat, (obligatory charity), fast the month of Ramadan, and give one-fifth of the 
war booty (in Allah's cause), and do not drink in (containers called) Ad-Duba,' Al-Hantam, An-Naqir 
and Al-Muzaffat."
Bukhari:6177 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every betrayer (perfidious person), a flag will be raised on the Day of 
Resurrection, and it will be announced (publicly) 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) of so-and-so, the son 
of so-and-so.' "
Bukhari:6178 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A flag will be fixed on the Day of Resurrection for every betrayer, and it will be 
announced (publicly in front of everybody), 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) so-and-so, the son of soand- 
so."
Bukhari:6179 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say Khabuthat Nafsi, but he is recommended to say 'Laqisat 
Nafsi."
Bukhari:6180 Narrated Sal:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say Khabuthat Nafsi but he is recommended to say 'Laqisat 
Nafsi (See Hadith No. 202)
Bukhari:6181 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, "The offspring of Adam abuse the Dahr (Time), and I am the Dahr; 
in My Hands are the night and the day." !
Bukhari:6182 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't call the grapes Al-Karm, and don't say 'Khaibat-ad-Dahri, for Allah is the 
Dahr. (See Hadith No. 202.)
Bukhari:6183 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "They say Al-Karm (the generous), and in fact Al-Karm is the heart of a 
believer."
Bukhari:6184 Narrated `Ali:I never heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you," except for 
Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas). I heard him saying, "Throw! (arrows), Let my father and mother be sacrificed 
for you !" (The sub-narrator added, "I think that was in the battle of Uhud.")
Bukhari:6185 Narrated Anas bin Malik:That he and Abu Talha were coming in the company of the Prophet (towards Medina), while Safiya 
(the Prophet's wife) was riding behind him on his she-camel. After they had covered a portion of the 
way suddenly the foot of the she-camel slipped and both the Prophet (ﷺ) and the woman (i.e., his wife, 
Safiya) fell down. Abu Talha jumped quickly off his camel and came to the Prophet (saying.) "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let Allah sacrifice me for you! Have you received any injury?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"No, but take care of the woman (my wife)." Abu Talha covered his face with his garment and went 
towards her and threw his garment over her. Then the woman got up and Abu Talha prepared their she-camel (by tightening its saddle, etc.) and both of them (the Prophet (ﷺ) and Safiya) mounted it. Then all of 
them proceeded and when they approached near Medina, or saw Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ayibun, taibun, `abidun, liRabbina hamidun (We are coming back (to Medina) with repentance, worshiping 
(our Lord) and celebrating His (our Lord's) praises". The Prophet (ﷺ) continued repeating these words till 
he entered the city of Medina.
Bukhari:6186 Narrated Jabir:A boy was born for a man among us, and the man named him Al-Qasim. We said to him, "We will not 
call you Abu-l-Qasim, nor will we respect you for that." The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed about that, and he 
said, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman."
Bukhari:6187 Narrated Jabi:A man among us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. The people said, "We will not call him (i.e., 
the father) by that Kuniya (Abu-l-Qasim) till we ask the Prophet (ﷺ) about it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said. "Name 
yourselves by my name, but do not call (yourselves) by my Kuniya."
Bukhari:6188 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim (The Prophet) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but do not call yourselves by my 
Kuniya."
Bukhari:6189 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A man among us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. The people said (to him), "We will not call 
you Abul-l-Qasim, nor will we please you by calling you so." The man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
mentioned that to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman."
Bukhari:6190 Narrated Al-Musaiyab:That his father (Hazn bin Wahb) went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) asked (him), "What is your 
name?" He replied, "My name is Hazn." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are Sahl." Hazn said, "I will not 
change the name with which my father has named me." Ibn Al-Musaiyab added: We have had 
roughness (in character) ever since.Narrated Al-Musaiyab:on the authority of his father similarly as above (i.e., 209).
Bukhari:6191 Narrated Sahl:When Al-Mundhir bin Abu Usaid was born, he was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) who placed him on his 
thigh. While Abu Usaid was sitting there, the Prophet (ﷺ) was busy with something in his hands so Abu 
Usaid told someone to take his son from the thigh of the Prophet (ﷺ) . When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished his job 
(with which he was busy), he said, "Where is the boy?" Abu Usaid replied, "We have sent him home." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is his name?" Abu Usaid said, "(His name is) so-and-so. " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"No, his name is Al-Mundhir." So he called him Al-Mundhir from that day.
Bukhari:6192 Narrated Abu Huraira:Zainab's original name was "Barrah," but it was said' "By that she is giving herself the prestige of 
piety." So the Prophet (ﷺ) changed her name to Zainab.
Bukhari:6193 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:That when his grandfather, Hazn visited the Prophet (ﷺ) the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "What is your name?" 
He said, "My name is Hazn." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " But you are Sahl." He said, "I will not change my 
name with which my father named me." Ibn Al-Musaiyab added: So we have had roughness (in 
character) ever since.
Bukhari:6194 Narrated Isma`il:I asked Abi `Aufa, "Did you see Ibrahim, the son of the Prophet (ﷺ) ?" He said, "Yes, but he died in his 
early childhood. Had there been a Prophet after Muhammad then his son would have lived, but there 
is no Prophet after him."
Bukhari:6195 Narrated Al-Bara:When Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet) died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet nurse for him in 
Paradise."
Bukhari:6196 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me (by my name) but do not call (yourselves) by my 
Kuniya (1), for I am Al-Qasim (distributor), and I distribute among you Allah's blessings." This 
narration has also come on the authority of Anas that the ! Prophet said so."
Bukhari:6197 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me (by my name), but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya, 
and whoever sees me in a dream, he surely sees me, for Satan cannot impersonate me (appear in my 
figure). And whoever intentionally ascribes something to me falsely, he will surely take his place in 
the (Hell) Fire.
Bukhari:6198 Narrated Abu Musa:I got a son and I took him to the Prophet (ﷺ) who named him Ibrahim, and put in his mouth the juice of a 
date fruit (which be himself had chewed?, and invoked for Allah's blessing upon him, and then gave 
him back to me. He was the eldest son of Abii Musa.
Bukhari:6199 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shuba:Solar eclipse occurred on the day of Ibrahim's death (the Prophet's son).
Bukhari:6200 Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):When the Prophet (ﷺ) (once) raised his head after bowing [in the Salat (prayer)] he said, "O Allah, save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid and Salama bin Hisham and 'Aiyyash bin Abu Rabi'a and the helpless weak believers of Makkah. O Allah, be hard on the tribe of Mudar. O Allah, send on them (famine-drought) years like the (famine-drought) years of (the Prophet) Yusuf (Joseph)."
Bukhari:6201 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Aisha! This is Gabriel sending his greetings to you." I 
said, "Peace, and Allah's Mercy be on him." `Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to see things which we 
used not to see.
Bukhari:6202 Narrated Anas:Once Um Sulaim was (with the women who were) in charge of the luggage on a journey, and 
Anjashah, the slave of the Prophet, was driving their camels (very fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjash! 
Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels (i.e., ladies).
Bukhari:6203 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best of all the people in character. I had a brother called Abu `Umar, who, I 
think, had been newly weaned. Whenever he (that child) was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) the Prophet (ﷺ) used 
to say, "O Abu `Umar! What did Al-Nughair (nightingale) (do)?" It was a nightingale with which he 
used to play. Sometimes the time of the Prayer became due while he (the Prophet) was in our house. 
He would order that the carpet underneath him be swept and sprayed with water, and then he would 
stand up (for the prayer) and we would line up behind him, and he would lead us in prayer.
Bukhari:6204 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The most beloved names to `Ali was Abu Turab, and he used to be pleased when we called him by it, 
for none named him Abu Turab (for the first time), but the Prophet. Once `Ali got angry with (his 
wife) Fatima, and went out (of his house) and slept near a wall in the mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) came 
searching for him, and someone said, "He is there, Lying near the wall." The Prophet (ﷺ) came to him 
while his (`Ali's) back was covered with dust. The Prophet (ﷺ) started removing the dust from his back, 
saying, "Get up, O Abu Turab!"
Bukhari:6205 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The most awful name in Allah's sight on the Day of Resurrection, will be (that 
of) a man calling himself Malik Al-Amlak (the king of kings).
Bukhari:6206 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most awful (meanest) name in Allah's sight." Sufyan said more than once, 
"The most awful (meanest) name in Allah's sight is (that of) a man calling himself king of kings." 
Sufyan said, "Somebody else (i.e. other than Abu Az-Zinad, a sub-narrator) says: What is meant by 
'The king of kings' is 'Shahan Shah.,"
Bukhari:6207 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode over a donkey covered with a Fadakiya (velvet sheet) and Usama was riding 
behind him. He was visiting Sa`d bin 'Ubada (who was sick) in the dwelling place of Bani Al-Harith 
bin Al-Khazraj and this incident happened before the battle of Badr. They proceeded till they passed 
by a gathering in which `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul was present., and that was before `Abdullah bin 
Ubat embraced Islam. In that gathering there were Muslims, pagan idolators and Jews, and among the 
Muslims there was `Abdullah bin Rawaha. 
When a cloud of dust raised by (the movement of ) the animal covered that gathering, `Abdullah bin 
Ubai covered his nose with his garment and said, "Do not cover us with dust." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greeted 
them, stopped, dismounted and invited them to Allah (i.e. to embrace Islam) and recited to them the 
Holy Qur'an. On that `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul said to him, "O man! There is nothing better than 
what you say, if it is the truth. So do not trouble us with it in our gatherings, but if somebody comes to 
you, you can preach to him." On that `Abdullah bin Rawaha said "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Call on us 
in our gathering, for we love that." So the Muslims, the pagans and the Jews started abusing one 
another till they were about to fight with one another. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on quietening them till all 
of them became quiet, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode his animal and proceeded till he entered upon 
Sa`d bin 'Ubada. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Sa`d! Didn't you hear what Abu Habab said?" (meaning 
`Abdullah bin Unbar). "He said so-and-so." Sa`d bin Ubada said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be 
sacrificed for you ! Excuse and forgive him for, by Him Who revealed to you the Book, Allah sent the 
Truth which was revealed to you at the time when the people of this town had decided to crown him 
(`Abdullah bin Ubai) as their ruler. 
So when Allah had prevented that with the Truth He had given you, he was choked by that, and that 
caused him to behave in such an impolite manner which you had noticed." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) excused 
him. (It was the custom of) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions to excuse the pagans and the people of 
the scripture (Christians and Jews) as Allah ordered them, and they used to be patient when annoyed 
(by them). Allah said: 'You shall certainly hear much that will grieve you from those who received the 
Scripture before you.....and from the pagans (3.186) 
He also said: 'Many of the people of the scripture wish that if they could turn you away as disbelievers 
after you have believed. .... (2.109) So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to apply what Allah had ordered him by 
excusing them till he was allowed to fight against them. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fought the battle of 
Badr and Allah killed whomever He killed among the chiefs of the infidels and the nobles of Quraish, 
and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions had returned with victory and booty, bringing with them 
some of the chiefs of the infidels and the nobles of the Quraish as captives. `Abdullah bin Ubai bin 
Salul and the pagan idolators who were with him, said, "This matter (Islam) has now brought out its 
face (triumphed), so give Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the pledge of allegiance (for embracing Islam.)". Then they 
became Muslims.
Bukhari:6208 Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith bin Naufal:`Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Did you benefit Abu Talib with anything as he used to protect and take care of you, and used to become angry for you?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, he is in a shallow place of Fire. Were it not for me, he would have been in the bottom-most depth of the Fire."
Bukhari:6209 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was on one of his journeys, and the driver of the camels started chanting (to let the 
camels go fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him. "(Take care) Drive slowly with the glass vessels, O Anjasha! 
Waihaka (May Allah be Merciful to you).
Bukhari:6210 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey and a slave named Anjasha was chanting (singing) for the camels to let 
them go fast (while driving). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjasha, drive slowly (the camels) with the glass 
vessels!" Abu Qilaba said, "By the glass vessels' he meant the women (riding the camels).
Bukhari:6211 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a Had (a camel driver) called Anjasha, and he had a nice voice. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to 
him, "(Drive) slowly, O Anjasha! Do not break the glass vessels!" And Qatada said, "(By vessels') he 
meant the weak women."
Bukhari:6212 Narrated Anas bin Malik:There was a state of fear in Medina. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talha (in order to 
see the matter). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We could not see anything, and we found that horse like a sea (fast 
in speed).
Bukhari:6213 Narrated `Aisha:Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the fore-tellers. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "They are 
nothing (i.e., liars)." The people said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ! Sometimes they tell something which 
comes out to be true." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "That word which comes to be true is what a jinx snatches 
away by stealing and then pours it in the ear of his fore-teller with a sound similar to the cackle of a 
hen, and then they add to it one-hundred lies."
Bukhari:6214 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying. "Then there was a pause in the revelation of the Divine 
Inspiration to me. Then while I was walking all of a sudden I heard a voice from the sky, and I raised 
my sight towards the sky and saw the same angel who had visited me in the cave of Hira,' sitting on a 
chair between the sky and the earth."
Bukhari:6215 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I stayed overnight at the house of Maimuna and the Prophet (ﷺ) was there with her. When it was the 
last third of the night, or some part of the night, the Prophet (ﷺ) got up looking towards the sky and 
recited: 'Verily! In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and in the alternation of Night and Day, 
there are indeed signs for men of u understanding.' (3.190)
Bukhari:6216 Narrated Abu Musa:That he was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in one of the gardens of Medina and in the hand of the 
Prophet there was a stick, and he was striking (slowly) the water and the mud with it. A man came (at 
the gate of the garden) and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Open the gate for him and 
give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise. "I went, and behold! It was Abu Bakr. So I opened the 
gate for him and informed him of the glad tidings of entering Paradise. Then another man came and 
asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of 
entering Paradise." Behold! It was `Umar. So I opened the gate for him and gave him the glad tidings 
of entering Paradise. Then another man came and asked permission to enter. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting in a leaning posture, so he sat up and said, "Open the gate for him and give 
him the glad tidings of entering Paradise with a calamity which will befall him or which will take 
place." I went, and behold ! It was `Uthman. So I opened the gate for him and gave him the glad 
tidings of entering Paradise and also informed him of what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said (about a calamity). 
`Uthman said, "Allah Alone Whose Help I seek (against that calamity).
Bukhari:6217 Narrated `Ali:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a funeral procession, and he started scraping the ground with a small 
stick and said, "There is none amongst you but has been assigned a place (either) in Paradise and (or) 
in the Hell-Fire." The people said (to him), "Should we not depend upon it?" He said: carry on doing 
(good) deeds, for everybody will find easy such deeds as will lead him to his destined place. He then 
recited: "As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah.." (92.5)
Bukhari:6218 Narrated Um Salama:(One night) the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up and said, "Subhan Allah ! How many treasures have been (disclosed) 
sent down! And how many afflictions have been descended! Who will go and wake the sleeping ladyoccupants 
up of these dwellings (for praying)?" (He meant by this his wives.) The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "A 
well-dressed soul (person) in this world may be naked in the "Hereafter." `Umar said, "I asked the 
Prophet, 'Have you divorced your wives?' He said, 'No.' I said, 'Allahu Akbar.' "
Bukhari:6219 Narrated Safiya bint Huyai:The wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) that she went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in I`tikaf (staying in the 
mosque) during the last ten nights of the month of Ramadan. She spoke to him for an hour (a while) at 
night and then she got up to return home. The Prophet (ﷺ) got up to accompany her, and when they 
reached the gate of the mosque opposite the dwelling place of Um Salama, the wife of the Prophet, 
two Ansari men passed by, and greeting Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , they quickly went ahead. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said to them, "Do not be in a hurry She is Safiya, the daughter of Huyai." They said, "Subhan Allah! 
O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (how dare we suspect you)." That was a great thing for both of them. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
then said, "Satan runs in the body of Adam's son (i.e. man) as his blood circulates in it, and I was 
afraid that he (Satan) might insert an evil thought in your hearts."
Bukhari:6220 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the throwing of stones (with the thumb and the index or middle finger), and said 
"It neither hunts a game nor kills (or hurts) an enemy, but it gouges out an eye or breaks a tooth."
Bukhari:6221 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Two men sneezed before the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to one of them, "May Allah bestow His Mercy 
on you," but he did not say that to the other. On being asked (why), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That one 
praised Allah (at the time of sneezing), while the other did not praise Allah."
Bukhari:6222 Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to do seven (things) and forbade us from seven (other things): He ordered us 
to pay a visit to the sick, to follow funeral possessions, to say: May Allah be merciful to you to a 
sneezer, - if he says: Praise be to Allah, to accept invitation (invitation to a wedding banquet), to 
return greetings, to help the oppressed, and to help others to fulfill their oaths (provided it was not 
sinful). And he forbade us from seven (things): to wear golden rings or golden bangles, to wear silk 
(cloth), Dibaj, Sundus and Mayathir.
Bukhari:6223 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah likes sneezing and dislikes yawning, so if someone sneezes and then praises 
Allah, then it is obligatory on every Muslim who heard him, to say: May Allah be merciful to you 
(Yar-hamuka-l-lah). But as regards yawning, it is from Satan, so one must try one's best to stop it, if 
one says 'Ha' when yawning, Satan will laugh at him."
Bukhari:6224 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " If anyone of you sneezes, he should say 'Al-Hamduli l-lah' (Praise be to Allah), 
and his (Muslim) brother or companion should say to him, 'Yar-hamuka-l-lah' (May Allah bestow his 
Mercy on you). When the latter says 'Yar-hamuka-llah", the former should say, 'Yahdikumul-lah wa 
Yuslih balakum' (May Allah give you guidance and improve your condition).
Bukhari:6225 Narrated Anas:Two men sneezed before the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said Tashmit to one of them, while he did not say 
Tashmit to the other. So that man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You said Tashmit to that fellow but you 
did not say Tashmit to me. "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That man praised Allah, but you did not praise Allah."
Bukhari:6226 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah loves sneezing but dislikes yawning; so if anyone of you sneezes and then 
praises Allah, every Muslim who hears him (praising Allah) has to say Tashmit to him. But as regards 
yawning, it is from Satan, so if one of you yawns, he should try his best to stop it, for when anyone of 
you yawns, Satan laughs at him."
Bukhari:6227 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah created Adam in His picture, sixty cubits (about 30 meters) in height. When 
He created him, He said (to him), "Go and greet that group of angels sitting there, and listen what they 
will say in reply to you, for that will be your greeting and the greeting of your offspring." Adam (went 
and) said, 'As-Salamu alaikum (Peace be upon you).' They replied, 'AsSalamu-'Alaika wa 
Rahmatullah (Peace and Allah's Mercy be on you) So they increased 'Wa Rahmatullah' The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added 'So whoever will enter Paradise, will be of the shape and picture of Adam Since then the 
creation of Adam's (offspring) (i.e. stature of human beings is being diminished continuously) to the 
present time."
Bukhari:6228 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Al-Fadl bin `Abbas rode behind the Prophet (ﷺ) as his companion rider on the back portion of his she 
camel on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering of sacrifice, 10th Dhul-Hijja) and Al-Fadl was a handsome 
man. The Prophet (ﷺ) stopped to give the people verdicts. In the meantime, a beautiful woman From the 
tribe of Khath'am came, asking the verdict of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Al-Fadl started looking at her as her 
beauty attracted him. The Prophet (ﷺ) looked behind while Al-Fadl was looking at her; so the Prophet (ﷺ) 
held out his hand backwards and caught the chin of Al-Fadl and turned his face (to the owner sides in 
order that he should not gaze at her. She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The obligation of Performing Hajj 
enjoined by Allah on His worshipers, has become due (compulsory) on my father who is an old man 
and who cannot sit firmly on the riding animal. Will it be sufficient that I perform Hajj on his behalf?" 
He said, "Yes."
Bukhari:6229 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Beware! Avoid sitting on the roads." They (the people) said, "O Allah s Apostle! 
We can't help sitting (on the roads) as these are (our places) here we have talks." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, ' l f 
you refuse but to sit, then pay the road its right ' They said, "What is the right of the road, O Allah's 
Apostle?" He said, 'Lowering your gaze, refraining from harming others, returning greeting, and 
enjoining what is good, and forbidding what is evil."
Bukhari:6230 Narrated `Abdullah:When we prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to say: As-Salam be on Allah from His worshipers, As- 
Salam be on Gabriel, As-Salam be on Michael, As-Salam be on so-and-so. When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished 
his prayer, he faced us and said, "Allah Himself is As-Salam (Peace), so when one sits in the prayer, 
one should say, 'at-Tahiyatu-li l-lahi Was-Salawatu, Wat-Taiyibatu, As-Salamu 'Alaika aiyuhan- 
Nabiyyu wa Rah-matul-iahi wa Barakatuhu, As-Salamu 'Alaina wa 'ala 'Ibadillahi assalihin, for if he 
says so, then it will be for all the pious slave of Allah in the Heavens and the Earth. (Then he should 
say), 'Ash-hadu an la ilaha illalllahu wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan `Abduhu wa rasulu-hu,' and 
then he can choose whatever speech (i.e. invocation) he wishes " (See Hadith No. 797, Vol. 1).
Bukhari:6231 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The young should greet the old, the passer by should greet the sitting one, and the 
small group of persons should greet the large group of persons. "
Bukhari:6232 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The riding one should greet the walking one, and the walking one should greet 
the sitting one, and the small number of persons should greet the large number of persons."
Bukhari:6233 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The riding person should greet the walking one,
     and the walking one should greet the sitting one, and the small number
     of persons should greet the large number of persons."
Bukhari:6234 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The younger person should greet the older one, 
     and the walking person should greet the sitting one, and the small 
     number of persons should greet the large number of persons."
Bukhari:6235 Narrated Al-Bara' bin 'Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to do seven (things): to visit the sick, to
     follow the funeral processions, to say Tashmit to a sneezer, to help 
     the weak, to help the oppressed ones, to propagate As-Salam 
     (greeting), and to help others to fulfill their oaths (if it is not 
     sinful). He forbade us to drink from silver utensils, to wear gold 
     rings, to ride on silken saddles, to wear silk clothes, Dibaj (thick 
     silk cloth), Qassiy and Istabraq (two kinds of silk). (See 
     Hadith No. 539, Vol. 7)
Bukhari:6236 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:A man asked the Prophet, "What Islamic traits are the best?" The 
     Prophet said, "Feed the people, and greet those whom you know and 
     those whom you do not know."
Bukhari:6237 Narrated Abu Aiyub:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a Muslim to desert (not to speak to) his brother Muslim for more 
than three days while meeting, one turns his face to one side and the other turns his face to the other 
side. Lo! The better of the two is the one who starts greeting the other."
Bukhari:6238 Narrated Anas bin Malik:that he was a boy of ten at the time when the Prophet (ﷺ) emigrated to Medina. He added: I served Allah's 
Apostle for ten years (the last part of his life time) and I know more than the people about the 
occasion whereupon the order of Al-Hijab was revealed (to the Prophet). Ubai b n Ka`b used to ask 
me about it. It was revealed (for the first time) during the marriage of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with Zainab bint 
Jahsh. In the morning, the Prophet (ﷺ) was a bride-groom of her and he Invited the people, who took their 
meals and went away, but a group of them remained with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and they prolonged their 
stay. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up and went out, and I too, went out along with him till he came to the lintel 
of `Aisha's dwelling place. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) thought that those people had left by then, so he returned, 
and I too, returned with him till he entered upon Zainab and found that they were still sitting there and 
had not yet gone. The Prophet (ﷺ) went out again, and so did I with him till he reached the lintel of 
`Aisha's dwelling place, and then he thought that those people must have left by then, so he returned, 
and so did I with him, and found those people had gone. At that time the Divine Verse of Al-Hijab 
was revealed, and the Prophet (ﷺ) set a screen between me and him (his family).
Bukhari:6239 Narrated Anas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) married Zainab, the people came and were offered a meal, and then they sat down 
(after finishing their meals) and started chatting. The Prophet (ﷺ) showed as if he wanted to get up, but 
they did not get up. When he noticed that, he got up, and some of the people also got up and went 
away, while some others kept on sitting. When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned to enter, he found the people still 
sitting, but then they got up and left. So I told the Prophet (ﷺ) of their departure and he came and went in. 
I intended to go in but the Prophet (ﷺ) put a screen between me and him, for Allah revealed:-- 'O you who 
believe! Enter not the Prophet's houses..' (33.53)
Bukhari:6240 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to say to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "Let your wives be 
veiled" But he did not do so. The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to go out to answer the call of nature at 
night only at Al-Manasi.' Once Sauda, the daughter of Zam`a went out and she was a tall woman. 
`Umar bin Al-Khattab saw her while he was in a gathering, and said, "I have recognized you, O 
Sauda!" He (`Umar) said so as he was anxious for some Divine orders regarding the veil (the veiling 
of women.) So Allah revealed the Verse of veiling. (Al-Hijab; a complete body cover excluding the 
eyes). (See Hadith No. 148, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:6241 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:A man peeped through a round hole into the dwelling place of the Prophet, while the Prophet (ﷺ) had a 
Midray (an iron comb) with which he was scratching his head. the Prophet (ﷺ) said, " Had known you 
were looking (through the hole), I would have pierced your eye with it (i.e., the comb)." Verily! The 
order of taking permission to enter has been enjoined because of that sight, (that one should not look 
unlawfully at the state of others). (See Hadith No. 807, Vol. 7)
Bukhari:6242 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man peeped into a room of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up, holding an arrow head. It is as if I 
am just looking at him, trying to stab the man.
Bukhari:6243 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I have not seen a thing resembling 'lamam' (minor sins) than what Abu Huraira 'narrated from the 
Prophet who said "Allah has written for Adam's son his share of adultery which he commits 
inevitably. The adultery of the eyes is the sight (to gaze at a forbidden thing), the adultery of the 
tongue is the talk, and the inner self wishes and desires and the private parts testify all this or deny it."
Bukhari:6244 Narrated Anas:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greeted somebody, he used to greet him three times, and if he spoke a 
sentence, he used to repeat it thrice.
Bukhari:6245 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:While I was present in one of the gatherings of the Ansar, Abu Musa came as if he was scared, and 
said, "I asked permission to enter upon `Umar three times, but I was not given the permission, so I 
returned." (When `Umar came to know about it) he said to Abu Musa, "Why did you not enter?'. Abu 
Musa replied, "I asked permission three times, and I was not given it, so I returned, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "If anyone of you asks the permission to enter thrice, and the permission is not given, then he 
should return.' " `Umar said, "By Allah! We will ask Abu Musa to bring witnesses for it." (Abu Musa 
went to a gathering of the Ansar and said). "Did anyone of you hear this from the Prophet (ﷺ) ?" Ubai bin 
Ka`b said, "By Allah, none will go with you but the youngest of the people (as a witness)." (Abu 
Sa`id) was the youngest of them, so I went with Abu Musa and informed `Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
said so. (See Hadith No. 277, Vol. 3)
Bukhari:6246 Narrated Abu Huraira:I entered (the house) along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . There he found milk in a basin. He said, "O Abu 
Hirr! Go and call the people of Suffa to me." I went to them and invited them. They came and asked 
permission to enter, and when it was given, they entered. (See Hadith No. 459 for details)
Bukhari:6247 Narrated Anas bin Malik:that he passed by a group of boys and greeted them and said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so."
Bukhari:6248 Narrated Abu Hazim:Sahl said, "We used to feel happy on Fridays." I asked Sahl, "Why?" He said, "There was an old 
woman of our acquaintance who used to send somebody to Buda'a (Ibn Maslama said, "Buda'a was a 
garden of date-palms at Medina). She used to pull out the silq (a kind of vegetable) from its roots and 
put it in a cooking pot, adding some powdered barley over it (and cook it). After finishing the Jumua 
(Friday) prayer we used to (pass by her and) greet her, whereupon she would present us with that 
meal, so we used to feel happy because of that. We used to have neither a midday nap, nor meals, 
except after the Friday prayer." (See Hadith No. 60, Vol.2)
Bukhari:6249 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O `Aisha! This is Gabriel sending his greetings to you." I said, "Peace, and 
Allah's Mercy be on him (Gabriel). You see what we do not see." (She was addressing Allah's 
Apostle).
Bukhari:6250 Narrated Jabir:I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in order to consult him regarding my father's debt. When I knocked on the door, 
he asked, "Who is that?" I replied, "I" He said, "I, I?" He repeated it as if he disliked it.
Bukhari:6251 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man entered the mosque while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting in one side of the mosque. The man 
prayed, came, and greeted the Prophet. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Wa 'Alaikas Salam (returned his 
greeting). Go back and pray as you have not prayed (properly)." The man returned, repeated his 
prayer, came back and greeted the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wa alaika-s-Salam (returned his 
greeting). Go back and pray again as you have not prayed (properly)." The man said at the second or 
third time, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Kindly teach me how to pray". The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you stand for 
prayer, perform ablution properly and then face the Qibla and say Takbir (Allahu-Akbar), and then 
recite what you know from the Qur'an, and then bow with calmness till you feel at ease then rise from 
bowing, till you stand straight, and then prostrate calmly (and remain in prostration) till you feel at 
ease, and then raise (your head) and sit with calmness till you feel at ease and then prostrate with 
calmness (and remain in prostration) till you feel at ease, and then raise (your head) and sit with 
calmness till you feel at ease in the sitting position, and do likewise in whole of your prayer." And 
Abu Usama added, "Till you stand straight." (See Hadith No. 759, Vol.1)
Bukhari:6252 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (in the above narration No. 268), "And then raise your head till you feel at ease 
while sitting. "
Bukhari:6253 Narrated `Aisha:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "Gabriel sends Salam (greetings) to you." She replied, "Wa 'alaihi-s- 
Salam Wa Rahmatu-l-lah." (Peace and Allah's Mercy be on him).
Bukhari:6254 Narrated `Urwa-bin Az-Zubair:Usama bin Zaid said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) rode over a donkey with a saddle underneath which there was a 
thick soft Fadakiya velvet sheet. Usama bin Zaid was his companion rider, and he was going to pay a 
visit to Sa`d bin Ubada (who was sick) at the dwelling place of Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj, and 
this incident happened before the battle of Badr. The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a gathering in which there 
were Muslims and pagan idolators and Jews, and among them there was `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul, 
and there was `Abdullah bin Rawaha too. When a cloud of dust raised by the animal covered that 
gathering, `Abdullah bin Ubai covered his nose with his Rida (sheet) and said (to the Prophet), "Don't 
cover us with dust." The Prophet (ﷺ) greeted them and then stopped, dismounted and invited them to 
Allah (i.e., to embrace Islam) and also recited to them the Holy Qur'an. `Abdullah bin Ubai' bin Salul 
said, "O man! There is nothing better than what you say, if what you say is the truth. So do not trouble 
us in our gatherings. Go back to your mount (or house,) and if anyone of us comes to you, tell (your 
tales) to him." On that `Abdullah bin Rawaha said, "(O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!) Come to us and bring it(what 
you want to say) in our gatherings, for we love that." So the Muslims, the pagans and the Jews started 
quarreling till they were about to fight and clash with one another. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on quietening 
them (till they all became quiet). He then rode his animal, and proceeded till he entered upon Sa`d bin 
'Ubada, he said, "O Sa`d, didn't you hear what Abu Habbab said? (He meant `Abdullah bin Ubai). He 
said so-and-so." Sa`d bin 'Ubada said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Excuse and forgive him, for by Allah, 
Allah has given you what He has given you. The people of this town decided to crown him (as their 
chief) and make him their king. But when Allah prevented that with the Truth which He had given 
you, it choked him, and that was what made him behave in the way you saw him behaving." So the 
Prophet excused him.
Bukhari:6255 Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b:I heard Ka`b bin Malik narrating (when he did not join the battle of Tabuk): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade 
all the Muslims to speak to us. I would come to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and greet him, and I would wonder 
whether the Prophet (ﷺ) did move his lips to return to my greetings or not till fifty nights passed away. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) then announced (to the people) Allah's forgiveness for us (acceptance of our repentance) 
at the time when he had offered the Fajr (morning) prayer.
Bukhari:6256 Narrated `Aisha:A group of Jews came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "As-samu 'Alaika " (Death be on you), and I 
understood it and said to them, "Alaikum AsSamu wa-l-la'na (Death and curse be on you)." Allah's 
Apostle said, "Be calm! O `Aisha, for Allah loves that one should be kind and lenient in all matters." I 
said. "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Haven't you heard what they have said?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have 
(already) said (to them), 'Alaikum (upon you).' "
Bukhari:6257 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Jews greet you, they usually say, 'As-Samu 'alaikum (Death be on 
you),' so you should say (in reply to them), 'Wa'alaikum (And on you).
Bukhari:6258 Narrated Anas bin Malik:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the people of the Scripture greet you, then you should say (in reply), 'Wa'alaikum 
(And on you).' "
Bukhari:6259 Narrated `Ali:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me, Az-Zubair bin Al-Awwam and Abu Marthad Al-Ghanawi, and all of us were 
horsemen, and he said, "Proceed till you reach Rawdat Khakh, where there is a woman from the 
pagans carrying a letter sent by Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to the pagans (of Mecca)." So we overtook her 
while she was proceeding on her camel at the same place as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told us. We said (to her) 
"Where is the letter which is with you?" She said, "I have no letter with me." So we made her camel 
kneel down and searched her mount (baggage etc) but could not find anything. My two companions 
said, "We do not see any letter." I said, "I know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not tell a lie. By Allah, if you 
(the lady) do not bring out the letter, I will strip you of your clothes' When she noticed that I was 
serious, she put her hand into the knot of her waist sheet, for she was tying a sheet round herself, and 
brought out the letter. So we proceeded to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the letter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Habib), 
"What made you o what you have done, O Hatib?" Hatib replied, "I have done nothing except that I 
believe in Allah and His Apostle, and I have not changed or altered (my religion). But I wanted to do 
the favor to the people (pagans of Mecca) through which Allah might protect my family and my 
property, as there is none among your companions but has someone in Mecca through whom Allah 
protects his property (against harm). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Habib has told you the truth, so do not say to 
him (anything) but good." `Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "Verily he has betrayed Allah, His Apostle, and 
the believers! Allow me to chop his neck off!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Umar! What do you know; 
perhaps Allah looked upon the Badr warriors and said, 'Do whatever you like, for I have ordained that 
you will be in Paradise.'" On that `Umar wept and said, "Allah and His Apostle know best."
Bukhari:6260 Narrated Abu Sufyan bin Harb:that Heraclius had sent for him to come along with a group of the Quraish who were trading in Sha'm, 
and they came to him. Then Abu Sufyan mentioned the whole narration and said, "Heraclius asked for 
the letter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . When the letter was read, its contents were as follows: 'In the name of 
Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful. From Muhammad, Allah's slave and His Apostle to Heraclius, the 
Chief of Byzantines: Peace be upon him who follows the right path (guidance)! Amma ba'du (to 
proceed )...' (See Hadith No 6, Vol 1 for details)
Bukhari:6261 Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned a person from Bani Israel who took a piece of wood, made a hole in it, and put therein one thousand Dinar and letter from him to his friend. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(That man) cut a piece of wood and put the money inside it and wrote a letter from such and such a person to such and such a person."
Bukhari:6262 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The people of (the tribe of) Quraiza agreed upon to accept the verdict of Sa`d. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for 
him (Sa`d) and he came. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to those people), "Get up for your chief or the best among 
you!" Sa`d sat beside the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "These people have agreed to accept 
your verdict." Sa`d said, "So I give my judgment that their warriors should be killed and their women 
and children should be taken as captives." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have judged according to the King's 
(Allah's) judgment." (See Hadith No. 447, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:6263 Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas, "Was it a custom of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) to shake hands with one another?" 
He said, "Yes."
Bukhari:6264 Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was holding the hand of `Umar bin Al-Khattab.
Bukhari:6265 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught me the Tashah-hud as he taught me a Sura from the Qur'an, while my hand was 
between his hands. (Tashah-hud was) all the best compliments and the prayers and the good things are 
for Allah. Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be on you, O Prophet! Peace be on us and on the 
pious slaves of Allah, I testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and I also testify 
that Muhammad is Allah's slave and His Apostle. (We used to recite this in the prayer) during the 
lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) , but when he had died, we used to say, "Peace be on the Prophet."
Bukhari:6266 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:`Ali bin Abu Talib came out of the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) during his fatal ailment. The people asked 
(`Ali), "O Abu Hasan! How is the health of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) this morning?" `Ali said, "This morning 
he is better, with the grace of Allah." Al-`Abbas held `Ali by the hand and said, "Don't you see him 
(about to die)? By Allah, within three days you will be the slave of the stick (i.e., under the command 
of another ruler). By Allah, I think that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) will die from his present ailment, for I know 
the signs of death on the faces of the offspring of `Abdul Muttalib. So let us go to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to 
ask him who will take over the Caliphate. If the authority is given to us, we will know it, and if it is 
given to somebody else we will request him to recommend us to him. " `Ali said, "By Allah! If we ask 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the rulership and he refuses, then the people will never give it to us. Besides, I will 
never ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for it." (See Hadith No 728, Vol 5)
Bukhari:6267 Narrated Mu`adh:While I was a companion rider with the Prophet (ﷺ) he said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik wa 
Sa`daik." He repeated this call three times and then said, "Do you know what Allah's Right on His 
slaves is?" I replied, "No." He said, Allah's Right on His slaves is that they should worship Him 
(Alone) and should not join partners in worship with Him." He said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik 
wa Sa`daik." He said, "Do you know what the right of (Allah's) salves on Allah is, if they do that 
(worship Him Alone and join none in His worship)? It is that He will not punish them."

(another chain through Mu'adh)
Bukhari:6268 Narrated Abu Dhar:While I was walking with the Prophet (ﷺ) at the Hurra of Medina in the evening, the mountain of Uhud 
appeared before us. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Dhar! I would not like to have gold equal to Uhud 
(mountain) for me, unless nothing of it, not even a single Dinar remains of it with me, for more than 
one day or three days, except that single Dinar which I will keep for repaying debts. I will spend all of 
it (the whole amount) among Allah's slaves like this and like this and like this." The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed 
out with his hand to illustrate it and then said, "O Abu Dhar!" I replied, "Labbaik wa Sa`daik, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Those who have much wealth (in this world) will be the least rewarded (in 
the Hereafter) except those who do like this and like this (i.e., spend their money in charity)." Then he 
ordered me, "Remain at your place and do not leave it, O Abu Dhar, till I come back." He went away 
till he disappeared from me. Then I heard a voice and feared that something might have happened to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and I intended to go (to find out) but I remembered the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
that I should not leave, my place, so I kept on waiting (and after a while the Prophet (ﷺ) came), and I said 
to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I heard a voice and I was afraid that something might have happened to 
you, but then I remembered your statement and stayed (there). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That was Gabriel 
who came to me and informed me that whoever among my followers died without joining others in 
worship with Allah, would enter Paradise." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Even if he had committed 
illegal sexual intercourse and theft?" He said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and 
theft."
Bukhari:6269 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man should not make another man get up from his (the latter's) seat (in a 
gathering) in order to sit there.
Bukhari:6270 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should be made to get up from his seat so that another might sit on it, 
but one should make room and spread out. Ibn `Umar disliked that a man should get up from his seat 
and then somebody else sit at his place.
Bukhari:6271 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) married Zainab bint Jahsh, he invited the people who took their meals and then 
remained sitting and talking. The Prophet (ﷺ) pretended to be ready to get up, but the people did not get 
up. When he noticed that, he got up, and when he had got up, some of those people got up along with 
him and there remained three (who kept on sitting). Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came back and found those 
people still sitting. Later on those people got up and went away. So I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
informed him that they had left. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) came, and entered (his house). I wanted to enter(along with him) but he dropped a curtain 
between me and him. Allah then revealed: 'O you who believe! Do not enter the Prophet's Houses 
until leave is given... (to His statement)... Verily! That shall be an enormity, in Allah's sight.' (33.53)
Bukhari:6272 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the courtyard of the Ka`ba in the Ihtiba.' posture putting his hand round his 
legs like this.
Bukhari:6273 Narrated Abu Bakra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Shall I inform you of the biggest of the great sins?" They said, "Yes, O Allah's 
Apostle!" He said, "To join partners in worship with Allah, and to be undutiful to one's parents. "
Bukhari:6274 Narrated Bishr:as above (No. 290) adding: The Prophet (ﷺ) was reclining (leaning) and then he sat up saying, "And I 
warn you against giving a false statement." And he kept on saying that warning so much so that we 
said, "Would that he had stopped."
Bukhari:6275 Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and then he walked quickly and entered his house.
Bukhari:6276 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer his prayer (while standing) in the midst of the bed, and I used to lie in 
front of him between him and the Qibla It I had any necessity for getting up and I used to dislike to get 
up and face him (while he was in prayer), but I would gradually slip away from the bed.
Bukhari:6277 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The news of my fasting was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) . So he entered upon me and I put for him a 
leather cushion stuffed with palm-fibres. The Prophet (ﷺ) sat on the floor and the cushion was between me 
and him. He said to me, "Isn't it sufficient for you (that you fast) three days a month?" I said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more than this)." He said, "You may fast) five days a month." I said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more than this)." He said, "(You may fast) seven days." I said, "O Allah's 
Apostle!" He said, "Nine." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Eleven." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" 
He said, "No fasting is superior to the fasting of (the Prophet (ﷺ) David) which was one half of a year, and 
he used, to fast on alternate days. (See Hadith No. 300, Vol 3)
Bukhari:6278 Narrated Ibrahim:'Alaqama went to Sham and came to the mosque and offered a two-rak`at prayer, and invoked Allah: 
"O Allah! Bless me with a (pious) good companion." So he sat beside Abu Ad-Darda' who asked, 
"From where are you?" He said, "From the people of Kufa." Abu Darda' said, "Wasn't there among 
you the person who keeps the secrets (of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) which nobody knew except him (i.e., Hudhaifa 
(bin Al-Yaman)). And isn't there among you the person whom Allah gave refuge from Satan through 
the request (tongue) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? (i.e., `Ammar). Isn't there among you the one who used to 
carry the Siwak and the cushion (or pillows (of the Prophets)? (i.e., Ibn Mas`ud). How did Ibn Mas`ud 
use to recite 'By the night as it conceals (the light)?" (Sura 92). 'Alqama said, "Wadhdhakari Wal 
Untha' (And by male and female.") Abu Ad-Darda added. 'These people continued to argue with me 
regarding it till they were about to cause me to have doubts although I heard it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:6279 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:We used to have a midday nap and take our meals after the Jumua (prayer).
Bukhari:6280 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:There was no name dearer to `Ali than his nickname Abu Turab (the father of dust). He used to feel 
happy whenever he was called by this name. Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to the house of Fatima but 
did not find `Ali in the house. So he asked "Where is your cousin?" She replied, "There was 
something (a quarrel) between me and him whereupon he got angry with me and went out without 
having a midday nap in my house." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked a person to look for him. That person came, 
and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He (Ali) is sleeping in the mosque." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went there and 
found him lying. His upper body cover had fallen off to one side of his body, and so he was covered 
with dust. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started cleaning the dust from him, saying, "Get up, O Abu Turab! Get up, 
Abu Turab!" (See Hadith No. 432, Vol 1)
Bukhari:6281 Narrated Thumama:Anas said, "Um Sulaim used to spread a leather sheet for the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to take a midday 
nap on that leather sheet at her home." Anas added, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) had slept, she would take 
some of his sweat and hair and collect it (the sweat) in a bottle and then mix it with Suk (a kind of 
perfume) while he was still sleeping. "When the death of Anas bin Malik approached, he advised that 
some of that Suk be mixed with his Hanut (perfume for embalming the dead body), and it was mixed 
with his Hanut.
Bukhari:6282 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Quba, he used to visit Um Haram bint Milhan who would offer him 
meals; and she was the wife of 'Ubada bin As-samit. One day he went to her house and she offered 
him a meal, and after that he slept, and then woke up smiling. She (Um Haram) said, "I asked him, 
'What makes you laugh, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' He said, 'Some people of my followers were displayed 
before me as warriors fighting for Allah's Cause and sailing over this sea, kings on thrones,' or said, 
'like kings on thrones.' (The narrator, 'Is-haq is in doubt about it.) I (Um Haram) said, 'O Allah's 
Apostle! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them.' He invoked (Allah) for her and then lay his 
head and slept again and then woke up smiling. I asked, 'What makes you laugh, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' 
He said, 'Some people of my followers were displayed before me as warriors fighting for Allah's 
Cause and sailing over this sea, kings on the thrones,' or said, 'like kings on the thrones.' I (Um 
Haram) said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them.' He said, You will 
be amongst the first ones." It is said that Um Haram sailed over the sea at the time of Muawiya, and 
on coming out of the sea, she fell down from her riding animal and died.
Bukhari:6283 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Quba, he used to visit Um Haram bint Milhan who would offer him 
meals; and she was the wife of 'Ubada bin As-samit. One day he went to her house and she offered 
him a meal, and after that he slept, and then woke up smiling. She (Um Haram) said, "I asked him, 
'What makes you laugh, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' He said, 'Some people of my followers were displayed 
before me as warriors fighting for Allah's Cause and sailing over this sea, kings on thrones,' or said, 
'like kings on thrones.' (The narrator, 'Is-haq is in doubt about it.) I (Um Haram) said, 'O Allah's 
Apostle! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them.' He invoked (Allah) for her and then lay his 
head and slept again and then woke up smiling. I asked, 'What makes you laugh, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' 
He said, 'Some people of my followers were displayed before me as warriors fighting for Allah's 
Cause and sailing over this sea, kings on the thrones,' or said, 'like kings on the thrones.' I (Um 
Haram) said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them.' He said, You will 
be amongst the first ones." It is said that Um Haram sailed over the sea at the time of Muawiya, and 
on coming out of the sea, she fell down from her riding animal and died.
Bukhari:6284 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dresses and two kinds of bargains; Ishtimal As-Samma and Al- 
Ihtiba in one garment with no part of it covering one's private parts. (The two kinds of bargains were:) 
Al-Mulamasa and Al-Munabadha.
Bukhari:6285 Narrated `Aisha:Mother of the Believers: We, the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) were all sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) and none of us 
had left when Fatima came walking, and by Allah, her gait was very similar to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
.' When he saw her, he welcomed her, saying, "Welcome, O my daughter!" Then he made her sit on 
his right or his left, confided something to her, whereupon she wept bitterly. When he noticed her 
sorrow, he confided something else to her for the second time, and she started laughing. Only I from 
among the Prophet's wives said to her, "(O Fatima), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) selected you from among us for 
the secret talk and still you weep?" When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up (and went away), I asked her, "What 
did he confide to you?" She said, "I wouldn't disclose the secrets of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)" But when he died 
I asked her, "I beseech you earnestly by what right I have on you, to tell me (that secret talk which the 
Prophet had with you)" She said, "As you ask me now, yes, (I will tell you)." She informed me, 
saying, "When he talked to me secretly the first time, he said that Gabriel used to review the Qur'an 
with him once every year. 
He added, 'But this year he reviewed it with me twice, and therefore I think that my time of death has 
approached. So, be afraid of Allah, and be patient, for I am the best predecessor for you (in the 
Hereafter).' " Fatima added, "So I wept as you (`Aisha) witnessed. And when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw me in 
this sorrowful state, he confided the second secret to me saying, 'O Fatima! Will you not be pleased 
that you will be chief of all the believing women (or chief of the women of this nation i.e. my 
followers?")
Bukhari:6286 Narrated `Aisha:Mother of the Believers: We, the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) were all sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) and none of us 
had left when Fatima came walking, and by Allah, her gait was very similar to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
.' When he saw her, he welcomed her, saying, "Welcome, O my daughter!" Then he made her sit on 
his right or his left, confided something to her, whereupon she wept bitterly. When he noticed her 
sorrow, he confided something else to her for the second time, and she started laughing. Only I from 
among the Prophet's wives said to her, "(O Fatima), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) selected you from among us for 
the secret talk and still you weep?" When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up (and went away), I asked her, "What 
did he confide to you?" She said, "I wouldn't disclose the secrets of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)" But when he died 
I asked her, "I beseech you earnestly by what right I have on you, to tell me (that secret talk which the 
Prophet had with you)" She said, "As you ask me now, yes, (I will tell you)." She informed me, 
saying, "When he talked to me secretly the first time, he said that Gabriel used to review the Qur'an 
with him once every year. 
He added, 'But this year he reviewed it with me twice, and therefore I think that my time of death has 
approached. So, be afraid of Allah, and be patient, for I am the best predecessor for you (in the 
Hereafter).' " Fatima added, "So I wept as you (`Aisha) witnessed. And when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw me in 
this sorrowful state, he confided the second secret to me saying, 'O Fatima! Will you not be pleased 
that you will be chief of all the believing women (or chief of the women of this nation i.e. my 
followers?")
Bukhari:6287 Narrated the uncle of `Abbas bin Tamim:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying on his back in the mosque and putting one of his legs over the other.
Bukhari:6288 Narrated `Abdullah:the Prophet (ﷺ) said "When three persons are together, then no two of them should hold secret counsel 
excluding the third person."
Bukhari:6289 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) confided to me a secret which I did not disclose to anybody after him. And Um Sulaim 
asked me (about that secret) but I did not tell her.
Bukhari:6290 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you are three persons sitting together, then no two of you should hold secret 
counsel excluding the third person until you are with some other people too, for that would grieve 
him."
Bukhari:6291 Narrated `Abdullah:One day the Prophet (ﷺ) divided and distributed something amongst the people whereupon an Ansari man 
said, "In this division Allah's Countenance has not been sought." I said, "By Allah! I will go (and 
inform) the Prophet." So I went to him while he was with a group of people, and I secretly informed 
him of that, whereupon he became so angry that his face became red, and he then said, "May Allah 
bestow His Mercy on Moses (for) he was hurt more than that, yet he remained patient."
Bukhari:6292 Narrated Anas:The Iqama for the prayer was announced while a man was talking to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) privately. He 
continued talking in that way till the Prophet's companions slept, and afterwards the Prophet (ﷺ) got up 
and offered the prayer with them.
Bukhari:6293 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not keep the fire burning in your houses when you go to bed."
Bukhari:6294 Narrated Abu Musa:One night a house in Medina was burnt with its occupants. The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke about them, saying, 
"This fire is indeed your enemy, so whenever you go to bed, put it out to protect yourselves."
Bukhari:6295 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(At bedtime) cover the utensils, close the doors, and put out the lights, lest the 
evil creature (the rat) should pull away the wick and thus burn the people of the house."
Bukhari:6296 Narrated Jabir:Allah s Apostle said, "When you intend going to bed at night, put out the lights, close the doors, tie 
the mouths of the water skins, and cover your food and drinks." Hamrnam said, "I think he (the other 
narrator) added, 'even with piece of wood across the utensil.'
Bukhari:6297 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "Five things are in accordance with Al Fitra (i.e. the tradition of prophets): to be 
circumcised, to shave the pelvic region, to pull out the hair of the armpits, to cut short the moustaches, 
and to clip the nails.'
Bukhari:6298 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "The Prophet) Abraham circumcised himself after 
     he had passed the age of eighty years and he circumcised himself with 
     an adze."
Bukhari:6299 Narrated Said bin Jubair:Ibn 'Abbas was asked, "How old were you when
     the Prophet (ﷺ) died?" He replied. "At that time I had been circumcised." 
     At that time, people did not circumcise the boys till they attained 
     the age of puberty. Sa'id bin Jubair said, "Ibn 'Abbas said, 'When the
     Prophet died, I had already been circumcised. "
Bukhari:6300 Sa'id ibn Jubair said, "Ibn 'Abbas said, 'When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I had already been circumcised.' "
Bukhari:6301 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever among you takes an oath wherein he says, 'By Al-Lat and Al-`Uzza,' 
names of two Idols worshipped by the Pagans, he should say, 'None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah; And whoever says to his friend, 'Come, let me gamble with you ! He should give something in 
charity. " (See Hadith No. 645)
Bukhari:6302 Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ) I built a house with my own hands so that it might protect me from 
the rain and shade me from the sun; and none of Allah's creatures assisted me in building it.
Bukhari:6303 Narrated `Amr:Ibn `Umar said, "By Allah, I have not put a brick over a brick (i.e. constructed a building) or planted 
any date-palm tree since the death of the Prophet." Sufyan (the sub narrator) said, "I told this narration 
(of Ibn `Umar) to one of his (Ibn `Umar's) relatives, and he said, 'By Allah, he did build (something.' 
"Sufyan added, "I said, 'He must have said (the above narration) before he built."
Bukhari:6304 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "For every prophet there is one (special 
     invocation (that will not be rejected) with which he appeals (to 
     Allah), and I want to keep such an invocation for interceding for my 
     followers in the Hereafter."
Bukhari:6305 Narrated Anas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every prophet there is an invocation that 
     surely will be responded by Allah," (or said), "For every prophet 
     there was an invocation with which he appealed to Allah, and his 
     invocation was accepted (in his lifetime), but I kept my (this 
     special) invocation to intercede for my followers on the Day of 
     Resurrection."
Bukhari:6306 Narrated Shaddad bin Aus:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "The most superior way of asking for forgiveness from Allah is: 

O Allah, You are my Lord, there is none worthy of worship except You. You have created me, and I am Your servant, and I am faithful to Your covenant and promise as much as I can. I seek refuge in You from the evil of what I have done. I acknowledge Your blessings upon me, and I admit my sins. So forgive me, for none forgives sins except You.(Allahumma anta Rabbi la ilaha illa anta, Khalaqtani wa ana `Abduka, wa ana `ala `ahdika wa wa`dika mastata`tu, 
A`udhu bika min Sharri ma sana`tu, abu'u Laka bini`matika `alaiya, wa abu'u laka bidhanbi faghfir lee 
fa innahu la yaghfiru adhdhunuba illa anta)
"The Prophet (ﷺ) added. "If somebody recites it during the day 
with firm faith in it, and dies on the same day before the evening, he will be from the people of 
Paradise; and if somebody recites it at night with firm faith in it, and dies before the morning, he will 
be from the people of Paradise."
Bukhari:6307 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying." By Allah! I ask for forgiveness from Allah and turn to Him in 
repentance more than seventy times a day."
Bukhari:6308 Narrated Al-Harith bin Suwaid:`Abdullah bin Mas`ud related to us two narrations: One from the Prophet (ﷺ) and the other from himself, 
saying: A believer sees his sins as if he were sitting under a mountain which, he is afraid, may fall on 
him; whereas the wicked person considers his sins as flies passing over his nose and he just drives 
them away like this." Abu Shihab (the sub-narrator) moved his hand over his nose in illustration. (Ibn 
Mas`ud added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His slave than a 
man who encamps at a place where his life is jeopardized, but he has his riding beast carrying his food 
and water. He then rests his head and sleeps for a short while and wakes to find his riding beast gone. 
(He starts looking for it) and suffers from severe heat and thirst or what Allah wished (him to suffer 
from). He then says, 'I will go back to my place.' He returns and sleeps again, and then (getting up), he 
raises his head to find his riding beast standing beside him."
Bukhari:6309 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His slave than anyone of you is 
pleased with finding his camel which he had lost in the desert. "
Bukhari:6310 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak`at in the late part of the night, and when dawn appeared, he 
would offer two rak`at and then lie on his right side till the Muadhdhin came to inform him (that the 
morning prayer was due).
Bukhari:6311 Narrated Al-Bara bin `Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "When you want to go to bed, perform ablution as you do for prayer, then 
lie down on your right side and say: 'Allahumma aslamtu wajhi ilaika, wa fawwadtu 'amri ilaika wa 
alja'tu dhahri ilaika, raghbatan wa rahbatan ilaika, la malja'a wa la manja minka illa ilaika. Amantu 
bikitabik al-ladhi anzalta wa binabiyyika al-ladhi arsalta'. If you should die then (after reciting this) you 
will die on the religion of Islam (i.e., as a Muslim); so let these words be the last you say (before 
going to bed)" While I was memorizing it, I said, "Wa birasulika al-ladhi arsalta (in Your Apostle 
whom You have sent).' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, but say: Wa binabiyyika al-ladhi arsalta (in Your 
Prophet whom You have sent).
Bukhari:6312 Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed, he would say: "Bismika amutu wa ahya." and when he got up he 
would say:" Al-hamdu li l-lahil-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana wa ilaihin-nushur."
Bukhari:6313 Narrated Al-Bara bin `Azib:That the Prophet (ﷺ) advised a man, saying, "If you intend to lie down (i.e. go to bed), say, 'Allahumma 
aslamtu nafsi ilaika wa fauwadtu `Amri ilaika, wa wajjahtu wajhi ilaika wa alja'tu zahri ilaika, 
reghbatan wa rahbatan ilaika. La malja'a wa la manja minka illa ilaika. Amantu bikitabikal-ladhi 
anzalta; wa nabiyyikalladhi arsalta.' And if you should die then (after reciting this before going to bed) 
you will die on the religion of Islam"
Bukhari:6314 Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed at night, he would put his hand under his cheek and then say, 
"Allahumma bismika amutu wa ahya," and when he got up, he would say, "Al-Hamdu lil-lahi al-ladhi 
ahyana ba'da ma amatana, wa ilaihi an-nushur."
Bukhari:6315 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to sleep on his right side and then say, "All-ahumma 
aslamtu nafsi ilaika, wa wajjahtu wajhi ilaika, wa fauwadtu `Amri ilaika, wa alja'tu zahri ilaika, 
raghbatan wa rahbatan ilaika. La Malja'a wa la manja minka illa ilaika. Amantu bikitabika al-ladhi 
anzalta wa nabiyyika al-ladhi arsalta! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever recites these words (before 
going to bed) and dies the same night, he will die on the Islamic religion (as a Muslim).
Bukhari:6316 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:One night I slept at the house of Maimuna. The Prophet (ﷺ) woke up, answered the call of nature, washed 
his face and hands, and then slept. He got up (late at night), went to a water skin, opened the mouth 
thereof and performed ablution not using much water, yet he washed all the parts properly and then 
offered the prayer. I got up and straightened my back in order that the Prophet (ﷺ) might not feel that I 
was watching him, and then I performed the ablution, and when he got up to offer the prayer, I stood on 
his left. He caught hold of my ear and brought me over to his right side. He offered thirteen rak`at in 
all and then lay down and slept till he started blowing out his breath as he used to do when he slept. In 
the meantime Bilal informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of the approaching time for the (Fajr) prayer, and the 
Prophet offered the Fajr (Morning) prayer without performing new ablution. He used to say in his 
invocation, Allahumma ij`al fi qalbi nuran wa fi basari nuran, wa fi sam`i nuran, wa`an yamini nuran, 
wa`an yasari nuran, wa fawqi nuran, wa tahti nuran, wa amami nuran, wa khalfi nuran, waj`al li 
nuran." Kuraib (a sub narrator) said, "I have forgotten seven other words, (which the Prophet (ﷺ) 
mentioned in this invocation). I met a man from the offspring of Al-`Abbas and he narrated those 
seven things to me, mentioning, '(Let there be light in) my nerves, my flesh, my blood, my hair and 
my body,' and he also mentioned two other things."
Bukhari:6317 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) got up at night to offer the night prayer, he used to say: "Allahumma laka l-hamdu; 
Anta nuras-samawati wal ardi wa man fihinna. wa laka l-hamdu; Anta qaiyim as-samawati wal ardi 
wa man flhinna. Wa lakaI-hamdu; Anta-l-,haqqun, wa wa'daka haqqun, wa qauluka haqqun, wa 
liqauka haqqun, wal-jannatu haqqun, wannaru haqqun, was-sa atu haqqun, wan-nabiyyuna huqqun, 
Mahammadun haqqun, Allahumma laka aslamtu, wa Alaika tawakkaltu, wa bika amantu, wa ilaika 
anabtu, wa bika Khasamtu, wa ilaika hakamtu, faghfirli ma qaddamtu wa ma akh-khartu, wa ma 
asrartu, wa ma a'lantu. Anta al-muqaddimu, wa anta al-mu-'akhkhiru. La ilaha il-la anta (or La ilaha 
ghairuka)"
Bukhari:6318 Narrated `Ali:Fatima complained about the blisters on her hand because of using a mill-stone. She went to ask the 
Prophet for servant, but she did not find him (at home) and had to inform `Aisha of her need. When he 
came, `Aisha informed him about it. `Ali added: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us when we had gone to our 
beds. When I was going to get up, he said, "'Stay in your places," and sat between us, till I felt the 
coolness of the feet on my chest. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Shall I not tell you of a thing which is better 
for you than a servant? When you (both) go to your beds, say 'Allahu Akbar' thirty-three times, and 
'Subhan Allah' thirty-three times, 'Al hamdu 'illah' thirty-three times, for that is better for you than a 
servant." Ibn Seereen said, "Subhan Allah' (is to be said for) thirty-four times."
Bukhari:6319 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to blow on his hands while reciting the Mu'auwidhat ( 
i.e. Suratal-Falaq 113 and Surat-an-Nas 114) and then pass his hands over his body.
Bukhari:6320 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you go to bed, he should shake out his bed with the inside of his 
waist sheet, for he does not know what has come on to it after him, and then he should say: 'Bismika 
Rabbi Wada`tu Janbi wa bika arfa'uhu, In amsakta nafsi farhamha wa in arsaltaha fahfazha bima 
tahfazu bihi ibadakas-salihin."
Bukhari:6321 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When it is the last third of the night, our Lord, the Blessed, the Superior, 
descends every night to the heaven of the world and says, 'Is there anyone who invokes Me (demand 
anything from Me), that I may respond to his invocation; Is there anyone who asks Me for something 
that I may give (it to) him; Is there anyone who asks My forgiveness that I may forgive him?' "
Bukhari:6322 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the lavatory, he used to say: "Allahumma inni a`udhu bika min al-khubuthi wal khaba'ith."
Bukhari:6323 Narrated Shaddad bin 'Aus:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most superior way of asking for forgiveness from Allah is: 'Allahumma anta 
Rabbi la ilaha illa anta. Khalaqtani wa ana `Abduka, wa ana 'ala 'ahdika wa Wa'dika mastata'tu abu'u 
Laka bi ni 'matika wa abu'u Laka bidhanbi; faghfirli fa'innahu la yaghfiru-dh-dhunuba ill a ant a. 
A'uidhu bika min sharri ma sana'tu.' If somebody recites this invocation during the night, and if he 
should die then, he will go to Paradise (or he will be from the people of Paradise). And if he recites it 
in the morning, and if he should die on the same day, he will have the same fate."
Bukhari:6324 Narrated Hudhaifa:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to go to bed, he would recite: "Bismika Allahumma amutu wa ahya 
(With Your name, O Allah, I die and I live)." And when he woke up from his sleep, he would say: 
"Al-hamdu lil-lahil-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana; wa ilaihi an-nushur (All the Praises are for Allah 
Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection). "
Bukhari:6325 Narrated Abu Dhar:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) lay on his bed, he used to say: "Allahumma bismika amutu wa ahya," and when 
he woke up he would say: "Al-hamdu lil-lahilladhi ahyana ba'da ma an atana, wa ilaihi an-nushur."
Bukhari:6326 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said to the Prophet, "Teach me an invocation with which I may invoke (Allah) in 
my prayer." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say: Allahumma inni zalamtu nafsi zulman kathiran wala yaghfirudhdhunuba 
illa anta, Faghfirli maghfiratan min indika war-hamni, innaka antalGhafur-Rahim."
Bukhari:6327 Narrated `Aisha:The Verse: 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110) was revealed as regards 
invocation.
Bukhari:6328 Narrated `Abdullah:We used to say in the prayer: 'AsSalam be on Allah, As-Salam be on so-and so.' So one day the 
Prophet said to us, "Allah Himself is As-Salam; when anyone of you sits during his prayer, he should 
say: 'at-tah, iyyatu-li l-lahi,' up to 'As-Salihin,' (All the compliments are for Allah ...righteous people) 
for when he recites this, then he says his Salam to all the righteous people present in the heavens and 
on the earth. Then he should say, 'I testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, and 
that Muhammad is His slave and His Apostle,' and then he can select whatever he likes to celebrate 
(Allah's) Praises."
Bukhari:6329 Narrated Abu Huraira:The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The rich people have got the highest degrees of prestige and the 
permanent pleasures (in this life and the life to come in the Hereafter)." He said, "How is that?" They 
said, "The rich pray as we pray, and strive in Allah's Cause as we do, and spend from their surplus 
wealth in charity, while we have no wealth (to spend likewise)." He said, "Shall I not tell you a thing, 
by doing which, you will catch up with those who are ahead of you and supersede those who will 
come after you; and nobody will be able to do such a good deed as you do except the one who does 
the same (deed as you do). That deed is to recite 'Subhan Allah ten times, and 'Al-Hamduli l-lah ten 
times, and 'AllahuAkbar' ten times after every prayer."
Bukhari:6330 Narrated Warrad:(the freed slave of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba) Al-Mughira wrote to Muawiya bin Abu Sufyan that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at the end of every prayer after the Taslim, "La ilaha illa-l-lahu wahdahu la 
sharika lahu; lahu-l-mulk wa lahu-l-hamd, wahuwa 'ala kulli shai'n qadir. Allahumma la mani'a Lima 
a taita, wa la mu'ta Lima mana'ta, wa la yanfa'u dhal-jaddu minkal-jadd.
Bukhari:6331 Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) to Khaibar. A man among the people said, "O 'Amir! Will you please 
recite to us some of your poetic verses?" So 'Amir got down and started chanting among them, saying, 
"By Allah! Had it not been for Allah, we would not have been guided." 'Amir also said other poetic 
verses which I do not remember. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who is this (camel) driver?" The people said, 
"He is 'Amir bin Al-Akwa`," He said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him." A man from the People 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Would that you let us enjoy his company longer." When the people 
(Muslims) lined up, the battle started, and 'Amir was struck with his own sword (by chance) by 
himself and died. In the evening, the people made a large number of fires (for cooking meals). Allah's 
Apostle said, "What is this fire? What are you making the fire for?" They said, "For cooking the meat 
of donkeys." He said, "Throw away what is in the pots and break the pots!" A man said, "O Allah's 
Prophet! May we throw away what is in them and wash them?" He said, "Never mind, you may do 
so." (See Hadith No. 509, Vol. 5).
Bukhari:6332 Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:Whenever a man brought his alms to the Prophet, the Prophet (ﷺ) would say, "O Allah! Bestow Your 
Blessing upon the family of so-and-so." When my father came to him (with his alms), he said, "O 
Allah! Bestow Your Blessings upon the family of Abi `Aufa."
Bukhari:6333 Narrated Jarir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me. "Will you relieve me from Dhi-al-Khalasa? " Dhi-al-Khalasa was an idol 
which the people used to worship and it was called Al-Ka`ba al Yamaniyya. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
I am a man who can't sit firm on horses." So he stroked my chest (with his hand) and said, "O Allah! 
Make him firm and make him a guiding and well-guided man." So I went out with fifty (men) from 
my tribe of Ahrnas. (The sub-narrator, Sufyan, quoting Jarir, perhaps said, "I went out with a group of 
men from my nation.") and came to Dhi-al-Khalasa and burnt it, and then came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have not come to you till I left it like a camel with a skin disease." The 
Prophet then invoked good upon Ahmas and their cavalry (fighters).
Bukhari:6334 Narrated Anas:Um Sulaim said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Anas is your servant." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! increase his 
wealth and offspring, and bless (for him) what ever you give him."
Bukhari:6335 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man reciting (the Qur'an) in the mosque. He said," May Allah bestow His Mercy 
on him, as he made me remember such and-such Verse which I had missed in such-and-such Sura."
Bukhari:6336 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) divided something (among the Muslims) and distributed the shares (of the booty). A man 
said, "This division has not been made to please Allah." When I informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about it, he 
became so furious that I noticed the signs of anger on his face and he then said, "May Allah bestow 
His Mercy on Moses, for he was hurt with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Bukhari:6337 Narrated `Ikrima:Ibn `Abbas said, "Preach to the people once a week, and if you won't, then preach them twice, but if 
you want to preach more, then let it be three times (a week only), and do not make the people fed-up 
with this Qur'an. If you come to some people who are engaged in a talk, don't start interrupting their 
talk by preaching, lest you should cause them to be bored. You should rather keep quiet, and if they 
ask you, then preach to them at the time when they are eager to hear what you say. And avoid the use 
of rhymed prose in invocation for I noticed that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions always avoided 
it."
Bukhari:6338 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you appeal to Allah for something, he should ask with 
determination and should not say, 'O Allah, if You wish, give me.', for nobody can force Allah to do 
something against His Will.
Bukhari:6339 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say: 'O Allah, forgive me if You wish; O Allah, be merciful 
to me if You wish,' but he should always appeal to Allah with determination, for nobody can force 
Allah to do something against His Will."
Bukhari:6340 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The invocation of anyone of you is granted (by Allah) if he does not show 
impatience (by saying, "I invoked Allah but my request has not been granted.")
Bukhari:6341 Narrated Anas, "The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands (in invocation) till I saw the whiteness of his armpits."
Bukhari:6342 Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering a sermon on a Friday, a man stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Invoke Allah to bless us with rain." (The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for rain.) So, the sky became overcast 
and it started raining till one could hardly reach one's home. It kept on raining till the next Friday 
when the same man or another man got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to withhold the 
rain from us, for we have been drowned (with heavy rain )." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Let it rain 
around us and not on us." Then the clouds started dispersing around Medina and rain ceased to fall on 
the people of Medina.
Bukhari:6343 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to this Musalla (praying place) to offer the prayer of Istisqa.' He invoked 
Allah for rain and then faced the Qibla and turned his Rida' (upper garment) inside out.
Bukhari:6344 Narrated Anas:My mother said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Please invoke Allah on behalf of your servant." He said, "O 
Allah! Increase his wealth and children, and bestow Your Blessing on whatever You give him." a time 
of distress.
Bukhari:6345 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah at the time of distress, saying, "La ilaha illal-lahu Al-`Azim, al- 
Halim, La ilaha illal-lahu Rabbu-s-samawati wal-ard wa Rabbu-l-arsh il-azim."
Bukhari:6346 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at a time of distress, "La ilaha illal-lahu Rabbul-l-'arsh il-'azim, La ilaha 
illallahu Rabbu-s-samawati wa Rabbu-l-ard, Rabbu-l-'arsh-il-Karim."
Bukhari:6347 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah from the difficult moment of a calamity and from being 
overtaken by destruction and from being destined to an evil end, and from the malicious joy of 
enemies. Sufyan said, "This narration contained three items only, but I added one. I do not know 
which one that was."
Bukhari:6348 Narrated `Aisha:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was healthy, he used to say, "No prophet dies till he is shown his place in 
Paradise, and then he is given the option (to live or die)." So when death approached him(during his 
illness), and while his head was on my thigh, he became unconscious for a while, and when he 
recovered, he fixed his eyes on the ceiling and said, "O Allah! (Let me join) the Highest Companions 
(see Qur'an 4:69)," I said, "So, he does not choose us." Then I realized that it was the application of 
the statement he used to relate to us when he was healthy. So that was his last utterance (before he 
died), i.e. "O Allah! (Let me join) the Highest Companions."
Bukhari:6349 Narrated Qais:I came to Khabbab who had been branded with seven brands(1) and he said, "Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not 
forbidden us to invoke (Allah) for death, I would have invoked (Allah) for it."
Bukhari:6350 Narrated Qais:I came to Khabbab who had been branded with seven brands over his `Abdomen, and I heard him 
saying, "If the Prophet: had not forbidden us to invoke (Allah) for death, I would have invoked Allah 
for it."
Bukhari:6351 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," None of you should long for death because of a calamity that had befallen him, 
and if he cannot, but long for death, then he should say, 'O Allah! Let me live as long as life is better 
for me, and take my life if death is better for me.' "
Bukhari:6352 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:My aunt took me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My sister's son is sick." So he 
passed his hand over my head and invoked for Allah's blessing upon me and then performed the 
ablution. I drank from the water of his ablution and I stood behind him and looked at his Khatam (the 
seal of Prophethood) between his shoulders (and its size was) like the button of a tent.
Bukhari:6353 Narrated Abu `Aqil:that his grandfather. `Abdullah bin Hisham used to take him from the market or to the market (the 
narrator is in doubt) and used to buy grain and when Ibn Az-Zubair and Ibn `Umar met him, they 
would say to him, "Let us be your partners (in trading) as the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked for Allah's blessing 
upon you." He would then take them as partners and he would Sometimes gain a whole load carried 
by an animal which he would send home.
Bukhari:6354 Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi:On whose face Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had thrown water from his mouth, the water having been taken from 
their well while he was still a young boy (who has not yet attained the age of puberty).
Bukhari:6355 Narrated `Aisha:The boys used to be brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to invoke for Allah's blessing upon them. 
Once an infant was brought to him and it urinated on his clothes. He asked for water and poured it 
over the place of the urine and did not wash his clothes.
Bukhari:6356 Narrated `Abdullah bin Tha`laba bin Su'air:whose eye Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had touched, that he had seen Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas offering one rak`a only 
for the witr prayer.
Bukhari:6357 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila:Ka`b bin 'Ujra met me and said, "Shall I give you a present? Once the Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and we said, 
'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ! We know how to greet you; but how to send 'Salat' upon you? He said, 'Say: 
Allahumma Salli ala Muhammadin wa 'ala `Ali Muhammadin, kama sal-laita 'ala all Ibrahima innaka 
Hamidun Majid. Allahumma barik 'ala Muhammadin wa 'ala all Muhammadin, kama barakta 'ala all 
Ibrahima, innaka Hamidun Majid."
Bukhari:6358 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) This is (i.e. we know) the greeting to you; will you tell us how to send 
Salat on you?" He said, "Say: 'Allahumma Salli 'ala Muhammadin `Abdika wa rasulika kama sal-laita 
'ala Ibrahima wa barik 'ala Muhammadin wa all Muhammadin kama barakta 'ala Ibrahima wa `Ali 
Ibrahim."
Bukhari:6359 Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:Whenever somebody brought alms to the Prophet (ﷺ) the used to say, "Allahumma Salli 'Alaihi (O Allah! 
Send Your Salat (Grace and Honor) on him)." Once when my father brought his alms to him, he said, 
"O Allah! Send Your Salat (Grace and Honor) on the family of Abi `Aufa."
Bukhari:6360 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Saidi:The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ! How may we send Salat on you?" He said, "Say: Allahumma 
Salli 'ala- Muhammadin wa azwajihi wa dhurriyyatihi kama sal-laita 'ala `Ali Ibrahim; wa barik 'ala 
Muhammadin wa azwajihi wa dhurriyyatihi kamabarakta 'ala `Ali Ibrahim innaka hamidun majid."
Bukhari:6361 Narrated Abu Huraira:that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah! If I should ever abuse a believer, please let that be a means 
of bringing him near to You on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:6362 Narrated Anas:Once the people started asking Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) questions, and they asked so many questions that he 
became angry and ascended the pulpit and said, "I will answer whatever questions you may ask me 
today." I looked right and left and saw everyone covering his face with his garment and weeping. 
Behold ! There was a man who, on quarreling with the people, used to be called as a son of a person 
other than h is father. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Your 
father is Hudhaifa." And then `Umar got up and said, "We accept Allah as our Lord, and Islam as 
(our) religion, and Muhammad as (our) Apostle; and we seek refuge with Allah from the afflictions." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, " I have never seen a day like today in its good and its evil for Paradise and the 
Hell Fire were displayed in front of me, till I saw them just beyond this wall." Qatada, when relating 
this Hadith, used to mention the following Verse:-- 
'O you who believe! Ask not questions about things which, If made plain to you, May cause you 
trouble. (5.101)
Bukhari:6363 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu Talha, "Choose one of your boys to serve me." So Abu Talha took me (to 
serve the Prophet (ﷺ) ) by giving me a ride behind him (on his camel). So I used to serve Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
whenever he stayed somewhere. I used to hear him saying, "O Allah! I seek refuge with you (Allah) 
from (worries) care and grief, from incapacity and laziness, from miserliness and cowardice, from 
being heavily in debt and from being overpowered by other men." I kept on serving him till he 
returned from (the battle of) Khaibar. He then brought Safiya, the daughter of Huyay whom he had 
got (from the booty). I saw him making a kind of cushion with a cloak or a garment for her. He then 
let her ride behind him. When we reached a place called As-Sahba', he prepared (a special meal 
called) Hais, and asked me to invite the men who (came and) ate, and that was the marriage banquet 
given on the consummation of his marriage to her. Then he proceeded till the mountain of Uhud 
appeared, whereupon he said, "This mountain loves us and we love it." When he approached Medina, 
he said, "O Allah! I make the land between its (i.e., Medina's) two mountains a sanctuary, as the 
prophet Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary. O Allah! Bless them (the people of Medina) in their Mudd 
and the Sa' (units of measuring).
Bukhari:6364 Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment of the grave.
Bukhari:6365 Narrated Mus`ab:Sa`d used to recommend five (statements) and mentioned that the Prophet (ﷺ) I used to recommend it. (It 
was) "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from miserliness; and seek refuge with You from cowardice; 
and seek refuge with You from being sent back to geriatric old age; and I seek refuge with You from 
the affliction of this world (i.e., the affliction of Ad-Dajjal etc.); and seek refuge with You from the 
punishment of the grave."
Bukhari:6366 Narrated `Aisha:Two old ladies from among the Jewish ladies entered upon me and said' "The dead are punished in 
their graves," but I thought they were telling a lie and did not believe them in the beginning. When 
they went away and the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Two old ladies.." and 
told him the whole story. He said, "They told the truth; the dead are really punished, to the extent that 
all the animals hear (the sound resulting from) their punishment." Since then I always saw him 
seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment of the grave in his prayers.
Bukhari:6367 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Prophet used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from incapacity and laziness, from 
cowardice and geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, and I 
seek refuge with You from the afflictions of life and death."
Bukhari:6368 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness and geriatric old age, from 
all kinds of sins and from being in debt; from the trial and affliction of the grave and from the punishment in the 
grave; from the affliction of the Fire and from the punishment of the 
Fire; and from the evil of the affliction of wealth; and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of 
poverty, and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of Al-Mesiah Ad-Dajjal. O Allah! Wash away 
my sins with the water of snow and hail, and cleanse my heart from all the sins as a white garment is 
cleansed from the filth, and let there be a long distance between me and my sins, as You made East 
and West far from each other."
Bukhari:6369 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from worry and grief, from incapacity and 
laziness, from cowardice and miserliness, from being heavily in debt and from being overpowered by 
(other) men." (See Hadith No. 374)
Bukhari:6370 Narrated Mus`ab bin Sa`d:Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas used to recommend these five (statements) and say that the Prophet (ﷺ) said so (and 
they are): "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from miserliness, and seek refuge with You from 
cowardice, and seek refuge with You from being brought back to geriatric old age, and seek refuge 
with You from the afflictions of the world, and seek refuge with You from the punishment of the 
grave."
Bukhari:6371 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah saying, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from 
laziness, and seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from geriatric old age, 
and seek refuge with You from miserliness."
Bukhari:6372 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Make us love Medina as You made us love Mecca, or more, and transfer 
the fever that is in it, to Al-Juhfa. O Allah! Bless our Mudd and our Sam' (kinds of measures).
Bukhari:6373 Narrated 'Amir bin Sa`d:that his father said, "In the year of Hajjatal-Wada`, the Prophet (ﷺ) paid me a visit while I was suffering 
from an ailment that had brought me to the verge of death. I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My sickness has 
reduced me to the (bad) state as you see, and I am a rich man, but have no heirs except one daughter. 
Shall I give 2/3 of my property in charity?' He said, 'No.' I said, 'Then 1/2 of it?' He said, 'Even 1/3 is 
too much, for, to leave your inheritors wealthy is better than to leave them in poverty, begging from 
people. And (know that) whatever you spend in Allah's Cause, you will get reward for it, even for the 
morsel of food which you put in your wife's mouth.' I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will I be left behind 
my companions (in Mecca)?' He said, 'If you remain behind, whatever good deed you will do for 
Allah's Sake, will raise and upgrade you to a higher position (in Allah's Sight). May be you will live 
longer so that some people may benefit by you, and some e others (pagans) may get harmed by you. O 
Allah! Complete the migration of my companions and do not turn them on their heels; But (we pity) 
the poor Sa`d bin Khaula (not the above mentioned Sa`d) (died in Mecca)" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lamented 
(or pitied) for him as he died in Mecca. (See Hadith No. 693, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:6374 Narrated Sa`d:Seek refuge with Allah by saying the words which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say while seeking refuge with 
Allah, "0 Allah! I seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from miserliness, 
and seek refuge with You from reaching a degraded geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from 
the afflictions of the world and from the punishment in the grave."
Bukhari:6375 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness from geriatric old age, from 
being in debt, and from committing sins. O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the punishment of the 
Fire, the afflictions of the grave, the punishment in the grave, and the evil of the affliction of poverty 
and from the evil of the affliction caused by Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal. O Allah! Wash away my sins with 
the water of snow and hail, and cleanse my heart from the sins as a white garment is cleansed of filth, 
and let there be a far away distance between me and my sins as You have set far away the East and the 
West from each other."
Bukhari:6376 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah (by saying), "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the 
affliction of the Fire and from the punishment in the Fire, and seek refuge with You from the affliction 
of the grave, and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of wealth, and I seek refuge with You 
from the affliction of poverty, and seek refuge with You from the affliction of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal."
Bukhari:6377 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, 'O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the affliction of the Fire, the 
punishment of the Fire, the affliction of the grave, the punishment of the grave, and the evil of the 
affliction of poverty. O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the evil of the affliction of Al-Masih Ad- 
Dajjal, O Allah! Cleanse my heart with the water of snow and hail, and cleanse my heart from all sins 
as a white garment is cleansed from filth, and let there be a far away distance between me and my sins 
as You made the East and West far away from each other. O Allah! I seek refuge with You from 
laziness, sins, and from being in debt."
Bukhari:6378 Narrated Um Sulaim:that she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Anas is your servant, so please invoke for Allah's blessing for him." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring and bless (for him) whatever You give 
him."
Bukhari:6379 Narrated Um Sulaim:that she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Anas is your servant, so please invoke for Allah's blessing for him." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring and bless (for him) whatever You give 
him."
Bukhari:6380 Narrated Anas:Um Sulaim said (to the Prophet), "Anas is your servant; so please invoke for Allah's blessings for 
him." He said "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring, and Bless (for him) whatever You give 
him."
Bukhari:6381 Narrated Anas:Um Sulaim said (to the Prophet), "Anas is your servant; so please invoke for Allah's blessings for 
him." He said "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring, and Bless (for him) whatever You give 
him."
Bukhari:6382 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to teach us the Istikhara for each and every matter as he used to teach us the Suras 
from the Holy Qur'an. (He used to say), "If anyone of you intends to do something, he should offer a 
two-rak`at prayer other than the obligatory prayer, and then say: 'Allahumma inni astakhiruka 
bi'ilmika, wa astaqdiruka biqudratika, wa as'aluka min fadlika-l-'azim, fa innaka taqdiru wala aqdiru, 
wa ta'lamu wala a'lamu, wa anta'allamu-l-ghuyub. Allahumma in kunta ta'lamu anna hadha-lamra 
khairun li fi dini wa ma'ashi wa 'aqibati `Amri (or said, fi 'ajili `Amri wa ajilihi) fa-qdurhu li, Wa in 
kunta ta'lamu anna ha-dha-l-amra sharrun li fi dini wa ma'ashi wa 'aqibati `Amri (or said, fi ajili `Amri 
wa ajilihi) fasrifhu 'anni was-rifni 'anhu wa aqdur li alkhaira haithu kana, thumma Raddani bihi," Then 
he should mention his matter (need).
Bukhari:6383 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for some water and performed the ablution, and then raised his hands (towards the 
sky) and said, "O Allah! Forgive `Ubaid Abi 'Amir." I saw the whiteness of his armpits (while he was 
raising his hands) and he added, "O Allah! Upgrade him over many of Your human creatures on the 
Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:6384 Narrated Abu Musa:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and whenever we ascended a high place, we 
used to say Takbir (in a loud voice). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O people! Be kind to yourselves, for you are 
not calling upon a deaf or an absent one, but You are calling an All-Hearer, and an All-Seer." Then he 
came to me as I was reciting silently, "La haul a wala quwwata illa bil-lah." He said, "O `Abdullah bin 
Qais! Say: La haul a walaquwata illa bil-lah, for it is one of the treasures of Paradise." Or he said, 
"Shall I tell you a word which is one of the treasures of Paradise? It is: La haul a wala quwwata illa 
bil-lah."
Bukhari:6385 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from a Ghazwa or Hajj or `Umra, he used to say, "Allahu Akbar," 
three times; whenever he went up a high place, he used to say, "La ilaha illal-lahu wahdahu la sharika 
lahu, lahu-l-mulk wa lahu-l-hamd, wa huwa'ala kulli Shai 'in qadir. Ayibuna ta'ibuna 'abiduna 
lirabbina hamidun. Sadaqa-l-lahu wa'dahu, wa nasara`Abdahu wa hazama-l-ahzaba wahdahu."
Bukhari:6386 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) seeing a yellow mark (of perfume) on the clothes of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf, said, 
"What about you?" `Abdur-Rahman replied, "I have married a woman with a Mahr of gold equal to a 
date-stone." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Blessing on you (in your marriage). Give a 
wedding banquet, (Walima) even with one sheep."
Bukhari:6387 Narrated Jabir:My father died and left behind seven or nine daughters, and I married a woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Did you get married, O Jabir?" I replied, "Yes." He asked, "Is she a virgin or a matron?" I replied, 
"She is a matron." He said, "Why didn't you marry a virgin girl so that you might play with her and 
she with you (or, you might make her laugh and she make you laugh)?" I said, "My father died, 
leaving seven or nine girls (orphans) and I did not like to bring a young girl like them, so I married a 
woman who can look after them." He said, "May Allah bestow His Blessing on you."
Bukhari:6388 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you, when intending to have a sexual intercourse with his wife, says: 
'Bismillah, Allahumma jannibna-sh-shaitan, wa jannibi-sh-shaitan ma razaqtana,' and if the couple are 
destined to have a child (out of that very sexual relation), then Satan will never be able to harm that 
child."
Bukhari:6389 Narrated Anas:The most frequent invocation of The Prophet (ﷺ) was: "O Allah! Give to us in the world that which is 
good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire." (2.201)
Bukhari:6390 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to teach us these words as he used to teach us the Book (Qur'an): "O Allah! seek 
refuge with You from miserliness, and seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with 
You from being brought back to (senile) geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the 
affliction of the world and from the punishment in the Hereafter."
Bukhari:6391 Narrated `Aisha:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was affected by magic, so much that he used to think that he had done something 
which in fact, he did not do, and he invoked his Lord (for a remedy). Then (one day) he said, "O 
`Aisha!) Do you know that Allah has advised me as to the problem I consulted Him about?" `Aisha 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What's that?" He said, "Two men came to me and one of them sat at my 
head and the other at my feet, and one of them asked his companion, 'What is wrong with this man?' 
The latter replied, 'He is under the effect of magic.' The former asked, 'Who has worked magic on 
him?' The latter replied, 'Labid bin Al-A'sam.' The former asked, 'With what did he work the magic?' 
The latter replied, 'With a comb and the hair, which are stuck to the comb, and the skin of pollen of a 
date-palm tree.' The former asked, 'Where is that?' The latter replied, 'It is in Dharwan.' Dharwan was 
a well in the dwelling place of the (tribe of) Bani Zuraiq. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to that well and 
returned to `Aisha, saying, 'By Allah, the water (of the well) was as red as the infusion of Hinna, (1) 
and the date-palm trees look like the heads of devils.' `Aisha added, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and 
informed me about the well. I asked the Prophet, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), why didn't you take out the skin 
of pollen?' He said, 'As for me, Allah has cured me and I hated to draw the attention of the people to 
such evil (which they might learn and harm others with).' " 
Narrated Hisham's father: `Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was bewitched, so he invoked Allah 
repeatedly requesting Him to cure him from that magic)." Hisham then narrated the above narration. 
(See Hadith No. 658, Vol. 7)
Bukhari:6392 Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked for Allah's wrath upon the Ahzab (confederates), saying, "O Allah, the Revealer 
of the Holy Book, and the One swift at reckoning! Defeat the confederates; Defeat them and shake 
them."
Bukhari:6393 Narrated Abu Huraira:When the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sami' al-lahu liman hamidah (Allah heard him who sent his praises to Him)" 
in the last rak`a of the `Isha' prayer, he used to invoke Allah, saying, "O Allah! Save `Aiyash bin Abi 
Rabi`a; O Allah! Save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid; O Allah! Save the weak people among the believers; O 
Allah! Be hard on the Tribe of Mudar; O Allah! Inflict years of drought upon them like the years (of 
drought) of the Prophet (ﷺ) Joseph."
Bukhari:6394 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a Sariya (an army detachment) consisting of men called Al-Qurra', and all of them 
were martyred. I had never seen the Prophet (ﷺ) so sad over anything as he was over them. So he said 
Qunut (invocation in the prayer) for one month in the Fajr prayer, invoking for Allah's wrath upon the 
tribe of 'Usaiya, and he used to say, "The people of 'Usaiya have disobeyed Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:6395 Narrated `Aisha:The Jews used to greet the Prophet (ﷺ) by saying, "As-Samu 'Alaika (i.e., death be upon you), so I 
understood what they said, and I said to them, "As-Samu 'alaikum wal-la'na (i.e. Death and Allah's 
Curse be upon you)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be gentle and calm, O `Aisha, as Allah likes gentleness in all 
affairs." I said, "O Allah's Prophet! Didn't you hear what they said?" He said, "Didn't you hear me 
answering them back by saying, 'Alaikum (i.e., the same be upon you)?"
Bukhari:6396 Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of Al-Khandaq (the Trench). The 
Prophet said, "May Allah fill their (the infidels') graves and houses with fire, as they have kept us so 
busy that we could not offer the middle prayer till the sun had set; and that prayer was the `Asr 
prayer."
Bukhari:6397 Narrated Abu Huraira:at-Tufail bin `Amr came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The tribe of Daus has 
disobeyed (Allah and His Apostle) and refused (to embrace Islam), therefore, invoke Allah's wrath for 
them." The people thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) would invoke Allah's wrath for them, but he said, "O 
Allah! Guide the tribe Of Daus and let them come to us."
Bukhari:6398 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah with the following invocation: 'Rabbi-ghfir-li Khati 'ati wa jahli wa 
israfi fi `Amri kullihi, wa ma anta a'lamu bihi minni. Allahumma ighfirli khatayaya wa 'amdi, wa jahli 
wa jiddi, wa kullu dhalika'indi. Allahumma ighrifli ma qaddamtu wa ma akhartu wa ma asrartu wa ma 
a'lantu. Anta-l-muqaddimu wa anta-l-mu'akh-khiru, wa anta 'ala kulli shai'in qadir.'
Bukhari:6399 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah, saying, "Allahumma ighfirli khati'ati wa jahli wa israfi fi `Amri, wa 
ma anta a-'lamu bihi minni. Allahumma ighfirli hazali wa jiddi wa khata'i wa amdi, wa kullu dhalika 
'indi."
Bukhari:6400 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet) said, "On Friday there is a particular time. If a Muslim happens to be 
praying and invoking Allah for something good during that time, Allah will surely fulfill his request." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed out with his hand. We thought that he wanted to illustrate how short that time 
was.
Bukhari:6401 Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:`Aisha said, "The Jews came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said to him, "As-Samu 'Alaika (i.e., Death be upon 
you)." He replied, 'The same on you.' " `Aisha said to them, "Death be upon you, and may Allah curse 
you and shower His wrath upon you!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I said, "Be gentle and calm, O `Aisha! Be 
gentle and beware of being harsh and of saying evil things." She said, "Didn't you hear what they 
said?" He said, "Didn't you hear what I replied (to them)? have returned their statement to them, and 
my invocation against them will be accepted but theirs against me will not be accepted."
Bukhari:6402 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam says 'Amin', then you should all say 'Amin', for the angels say 
'Amin' at that time, and he whose 'Amin' coincides with the 'Amin' of the angels, all his past sins will 
be forgiven."
Bukhari:6403 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," Whoever says: "La ilaha illal-lah wahdahu la sharika lahu, lahu-l-mulk wa lahul- 
hamd wa huwa 'ala kulli shai'in qadir," one hundred times will get the same reward as given for 
manumitting ten slaves; and one hundred good deeds will be written in his accounts, and one hundred 
sins will be deducted from his accounts, and it (his saying) will be a shield for him from Satan on that 
day till night, and nobody will be able to do a better deed except the one who does more than he."
Bukhari:6404 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:Whoever recites it (i.e., the invocation in the above Hadith (412) ten times will be as if he manumitted 
one of Ishmael's descendants. Abu Aiyub narrated the same Hadith from the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 
"(Whoever recites it ten times) will be as if he had manumitted one of Ishmael's descendants."
Bukhari:6405 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever says, 'Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi,' one hundred times a day, will be 
forgiven all his sins even if they were as much as the foam of the sea.
Bukhari:6406 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There are two expressions which are very easy for the tongue to say, but they are 
very heavy in the balance and are very dear to The Beneficent (Allah), and they are, 'Subhan Allah Al- 
`Azim and 'Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi.'"
Bukhari:6407 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of the one who celebrates the Praises of his Lord (Allah) in 
comparison to the one who does not celebrate the Praises of his Lord, is that of a living creature 
compared to a dead one."
Bukhari:6408 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah 's Apostle said, "Allah has some angels who look for those who celebrate the Praises of Allah 
on the roads and paths. And when they find some people celebrating the Praises of Allah, they call 
each other, saying, "Come to the object of your pursuit.' " He added, "Then the angels encircle them 
with their wings up to the sky of the world." He added. "(after those people celebrated the Praises of 
Allah, and the angels go back), their Lord, asks them (those angels)----though He knows better than 
them----'What do My slaves say?' The angels reply, 'They say: Subhan Allah, Allahu Akbar, and 
Alham-du-li l-lah, Allah then says 'Did they see Me?' The angels reply, 'No! By Allah, they didn't see 
You.' 
Allah says, How it would have been if they saw Me?' The angels reply, 'If they saw You, they would 
worship You more devoutly and celebrate Your Glory more deeply, and declare Your freedom from 
any resemblance to anything more often.' Allah says (to the angels), 'What do they ask Me for?' The 
angels reply, 'They ask You for Paradise.' Allah says (to the angels), 'Did they see it?' The angels say, 
'No! By Allah, O Lord! They did not see it.' Allah says, How it would have been if they saw it?' The 
angels say, 'If they saw it, they would have greater covetousness for it and would seek It with greater 
zeal and would have greater desire for it.' Allah says, 'From what do they seek refuge?' The angels 
reply, 'They seek refuge from the (Hell) Fire.' Allah says, 'Did they see it?' The angels say, 'No By 
Allah, O Lord! They did not see it.' Allah says, How it would have been if they saw it?' The angels 
say, 'If they saw it they would flee from it with the extreme fleeing and would have extreme fear from 
it.' Then Allah says, 'I make you witnesses that I have forgiven them."' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "One of 
the angels would say, 'There was so-and-so amongst them, and he was not one of them, but he had just 
come for some need.' Allah would say, 'These are those people whose companions will not be reduced 
to misery.' "
Bukhari:6409 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) started ascending a high place or hill. A man (amongst his companions) ascended it and 
shouted in a loud voice, "La ilaha illal-lahu wallahu Akbar." (At that time) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was riding 
his mule. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You are not calling upon a deaf or an absent one." and added, "O Abu 
Musa (or, O `Abdullah)! Shall I tell you a sentence from the treasure of Paradise?" I said, "Yes." He 
said, "La haul a wala quwwata illa billah,"
Bukhari:6410 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah has ninety-nine Names, i.e., one hundred minus one, and whoever believes in their meanings 
and acts accordingly, will enter Paradise; and Allah is witr (one) and loves 'the witr' (i.e., odd 
numbers).
Bukhari:6411 Narrated Shaqiq:While we were waiting for `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud). Yazid bin Muawiya came. I said (to him), "Will 
you sit down?" He said, "No, but I will go into the house (of Ibn Mas`ud) and let your companion (Ibn 
Mas`ud) come out to you; and if he should not (come out), I will come out and sit (with you)." Then 
`Abdullah came out, holding the hand of Yazid, addressed us, saying, "I know that you are assembled 
here, but the reason that prevents me from coming out to you, is that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to preach to 
us at intervals during the days, lest we should become bored."
Bukhari:6412 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There are two blessings that many people are deceived into losing: health and free time."
Bukhari:6413 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! There is no life worth living except the life of the Hereafter, so (please) 
make righteous the Ansar and the Emigrants."
Bukhari:6414 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi:We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in (the battle of) Al-Khandaq, and he was digging the 
trench while we were carrying the earth away. He looked at us and said, "O Allah! There is no life 
worth living except the life of the Hereafter, so (please) forgive the Ansar and the Emigrants."
Bukhari:6415 Narrated Sahl:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A (small) place equal to an area occupied by a whip in Paradise is better 
than the (whole) world and whatever is in it; and an undertaking (journey) in the forenoon or in the 
afternoon for Allah's Cause, is better than the whole world and whatever is in it."
Bukhari:6416 Narrated Mujahid:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took hold of my shoulder and said, 'Be in this world as if 
you were a stranger or a traveler." The sub-narrator added: Ibn `Umar used to say, "If you survive till 
the evening, do not expect to be alive in the morning, and if you survive till the morning, do not 
expect to be alive in the evening, and take from your health for your sickness, and (take) from your 
life for your death."
Bukhari:6417 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) drew a square and then drew a line in the middle of it and let it extend outside the square 
and then drew several small lines attached to that central line, and said, "This is the human being, and 
this, (the square) in his lease of life, encircles him from all sides (or has encircled him), and this (line), 
which is outside (the square), is his hope, and these small lines are the calamities and troubles (which 
may befall him), and if one misses him, an-other will snap (i.e. overtake) him, and if the other misses 
him, a third will snap (i.e. overtake) him."
Bukhari:6418 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) drew a few lines and said, "This is (man's) hope, and this is the instant of his death, and 
while he is in this state (of hope), the nearer line (death) comes to Him."
Bukhari:6419 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not accept the excuse of any person whose instant of death is delayed till 
he is sixty years of age."
Bukhari:6420 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The heart of an old man remains young in two respects, i.e., his love 
for the world (its wealth, amusements and luxuries) and his incessant hope."
Bukhari:6421 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The son of Adam (i.e. man) grows old and so also two (desires) grow old with 
him, i.e., love for wealth and (a wish for) a long life."
Bukhari:6422 Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi'a:I remember that the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took water from a bucket (which was in our home used for getting water out of well) with his mouth (and threw it on my face).
Bukhari:6423 Narrated `Utban bin Malik Al-Ansari:who was one of the men of the tribe of Bani Salim: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and said, "If anybody 
comes on the Day of Resurrection who has said: La ilaha illal-lah, sincerely, with the intention to win 
Allah's Pleasure, Allah will make the Hell-Fire forbidden for him."
Bukhari:6424 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'I have nothing to give but Paradise as a reward to my believer 
slave, who, if I cause his dear friend (or relative) to die, remains patient (and hopes for Allah's 
Reward).
Bukhari:6425 Narrated `Amr bin `Auf:(An ally of the tribe of Bani 'Amir bin Lu'ai and one of those who had witnessed the battle of Badr 
with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent Abu 'Ubaida bin AlJarrah to Bahrain to collect the Jizya 
tax. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had concluded a peace treaty with the people of Bahrain and appointed Al 'Ala 
bin Al-Hadrami as their chief; Abu Ubaida arrived from Bahrain with the money. The Ansar heard of 
Abu 'Ubaida's arrival which coincided with the Fajr (morning) prayer led by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). When 
the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the prayer, they came to him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled when he saw them and said, 
"I think you have heard of the arrival of Abu 'Ubaida and that he has brought something." They 
replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! " He said, "Have the good news, and hope for what will please you. 
By Allah, I am not afraid that you will become poor, but I am afraid that worldly wealth will be given 
to you in abundance as it was given to those (nations) before you, and you will start competing each 
other for it as the previous nations competed for it, and then it will divert you (from good) as it 
diverted them." '
Bukhari:6426 Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the funeral prayer for the martyrs of the (battle of) Uhud and then 
ascended the pulpit and said, "I am your predecessor and I am a witness against you. By Allah, I am 
now looking at my Tank-lake (Al-Kauthar) and I have been given the keys of the treasures of the earth 
(or the keys of the earth). By Allah! I am not afraid that after me you will worship others besides 
Allah, but I am afraid that you will start competing for (the pleasures of) this world."
Bukhari:6427 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The thing I am afraid of most for your sake, is the worldly blessings which 
Allah will bring forth to you." It was said, "What are the blessings of this world?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"The pleasures of the world." A man said, "Can the good bring forth evil?" The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet for 
a while till we thought that he was being inspired divinely. Then he started removing the sweat from 
his forehead and said," Where is the questioner?" That man said, "I (am present)." Abu Sa`id added: 
We thanked the man when the result (of his question) was such. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Good never brings 
forth but good. This wealth (of the world) is (like) green and sweet (fruit), and all the vegetation 
which grows on the bank of a stream either kills or nearly kills the animal that eats too much of it, 
except the animal that eats the Khadira (a kind of vegetation). Such an animal eats till its stomach is 
full and then it faces the sun and starts ruminating and then it passes out dung and urine and goes to 
eat again. This worldly wealth is (like) sweet (fruit), and if a person earns it (the wealth) in a legal way 
and spends it properly, then it is an excellent helper, and whoever earns it in an illegal way, he will be 
like the one who eats but is never satisfied."
Bukhari:6428 Narrated Zahdam bin Mudarrib:`Imran bin Husain said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best people are my contemporaries (i.e., the present 
(my) generation) and then those who come after them (i.e., the next generation)." `Imran added: I am 
not sure whether the Prophet (ﷺ) repeated the statement twice after his first saying. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 
"And after them there will come people who will bear witness, though they will not be asked to give 
their witness; and they will be treacherous and nobody will trust them, and they will make vows, but 
will not fulfill them, and fatness will appear among them."
Bukhari:6429 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best people are those of my generation, and then those who will come after 
them (the next generation), and then those who will come after them (i.e. the next generation), and 
then after them, there will come people whose witness will precede their oaths, and whose oaths will 
precede their witness."
Bukhari:6430 Narrated Qais:I heard Khabbab, who had branded his `Abdomen with seven brands, saying, "Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not 
forbidden us to invoke Allah for death, I would have invoked Allah for death. The companions of 
Muhammad have left this world without taking anything of their reward in it (i.e., they will have 
perfect reward in the Hereafter), but we have collected of the worldly wealth what we cannot spend 
but on earth (i.e. on building houses).
Bukhari:6431 Narrated Qais:I came to Khabbab while he was building a wall, and he (Khabbab) said, "Our companions who have 
left this world, did not enjoy anything of their reward therein, while we have collected after them, 
much wealth that we cannot spend but on earth (i.e., on building).
Bukhari:6432 Narrated Khabbab:We migrated with the Prophet..(This narration is related in the chapter of migration).
Bukhari:6433 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I brought water to `Uthman bin `Affan to perform the ablution while he was sitting on his seat. He 
performed the ablution in a perfect way and said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing the ablution in this 
place and he performed it in a perfect way and said, "Whoever performs the ablution as I have done 
this time and then proceeds to the mosque and offers a two-rak`at prayer and then sits there (waiting 
for the compulsory congregational prayers), then all his past sins will be forgiven." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
further added, "Do not be conceited (thinking that your sins will be forgiven because of your prayer).
Bukhari:6434 Narrated Mirdas Al-Aslami:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The righteous (pious people will depart (die) in succession one after the other, and 
there will remain (on the earth) useless people like the useless husk of barley seeds or bad dates.
Bukhari:6435 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perish the slave of Dinar, Dirham, Qatifa (thick soft cloth), and Khamisa (a 
garment), for if he is given, he is pleased; otherwise he is dissatisfied."
Bukhari:6436 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If the son of Adam (the human being) had two valleys of money, he would 
wish for a third, for nothing can fill the belly of Adam's son except dust, and Allah forgives him who 
repents to Him."
Bukhari:6437 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If the son of Adam had money equal to a valley, then he will wish for 
another similar to it, for nothing can satisfy the eye of Adam's son except dust. And Allah forgives 
him who repents to Him." Ibn `Abbas said: I do not know whether this saying was quoted from the 
Qur'an or not. `Ata' said, "I heard Ibn AzZubair saying this narration while he was on the pulpit."
Bukhari:6438 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I heard Ibn Az-Zubair who was on the pulpit at Mecca, delivering a sermon, saying, "O men! The 
Prophet used to say, "If the son of Adam were given a valley full of gold, he would love to have a 
second one; and if he were given the second one, he would love to have a third, for nothing fills the 
belly of Adam's son except dust. And Allah forgives he who repents to Him." Ubai said, "We 
considered this as a saying from the Qur'an till the Sura (beginning with) 'The mutual rivalry for piling 
up of worldly things diverts you..' (102.1) was revealed."
Bukhari:6439 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Adam's son had a valley full of gold, he would like to have two valleys, for 
nothing fills his mouth except dust. And Allah forgives him who repents to Him."
Bukhari:6440 'Ubayy said(referring to the hadith above), "We considered this as a saying from the Qur'an till the Surah (beginning with):"The mutual rivalry (for piling up of worldly things) diverts you' (102:1) was revealed."
Bukhari:6441 Narrated Hakim bin Hizam:I asked the Prophet (for some money) and he gave me, and then again I asked him and he gave me, 
and then again I asked him and he gave me and he then said, "This wealth is (like) green and sweet 
(fruit), and whoever takes it without greed, Allah will bless it for him, but whoever takes it with greed, 
Allah will not bless it for him, and he will be like the one who eats but is never satisfied. And the 
upper (giving) hand is better than the lower (taking) hand."
Bukhari:6442 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who among you considers the wealth of his heirs dearer to him than his own 
wealth?" They replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! There is none among us but loves his own wealth more." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "So his wealth is whatever he spends (in Allah's Cause) during his life (on good 
deeds) while the wealth of his heirs is whatever he leaves after his death."
Bukhari:6443 Narrated Abu Dhar:Once I went out at night and found Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) walking all alone accompanied by nobody, and I 
thought that perhaps he disliked that someone should accompany him. So I walked in the shade, away 
from the moonlight, but the Prophet (ﷺ) looked behind and saw me and said, "Who is that?" I replied, 
"Abu Dhar, let Allah get me sacrificed for you!" He said, "O Abu Dhar, come here!" So I 
accompanied him for a while and then he said, "The rich are in fact the poor (little rewarded) on the 
Day of Resurrection except him whom Allah gives wealth which he gives (in charity) to his right, left, 
front and back, and does good deeds with it. I walked with him a little longer. Then he said to me, "Sit 
down here." So he made me sit in an open space surrounded by rocks, and said to me, "Sit here till I 
come back to you." He went towards Al-Harra till I could not see him, and he stayed away for a long 
period, and then I heard him saying, while he was coming, "Even if he had committed theft, and even 
if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse?" When he came, I could not remain patient and asked 
him, "O Allah's Prophet! Let Allah get me sacrificed for you! Whom were you speaking to by the side 
of Al-Harra? I did not hear anybody responding to your talk." He said, "It was Gabriel who appeared 
to me beside Al-Harra and said, 'Give the good news to your followers that whoever dies without 
having worshipped anything besides Allah, will enter Paradise.' I said, 'O Gabriel! Even if he had 
committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, 'Yes.' I said, 'Even if he has 
committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, 'Yes.' I said, 'Even if he has 
committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, 'Yes.' "
Bukhari:6444 Narrated Abu Dhar:While I was walking with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Harra of Medina, Uhud came in sight. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"O Abu Dhar!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "I would not like to have gold equal to 
this mountain of Uhud, unless nothing of it, not even a single Dinar of it remains with me for more 
than three days, except something which I will keep for repaying debts. I would have spent all of it 
(distributed it) amongst Allah's Slaves like this, and like this, and like this." The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed out 
with his hand towards his right, his left and his back (while illustrating it). He proceeded with his walk 
and said, "The rich are in fact the poor (little rewarded) on the Day of Resurrection except those who 
spend their wealth like this, and like this, and like this, to their right, left and back, but such people are 
few in number." Then he said to me, "Stay at your place and do not leave it till I come back." Then he 
proceeded in the darkness of the night till he went out of sight, and then I heard a loud voice, and was 
afraid that something might have happened to the Prophet (ﷺ) .1 intended to go to him, but I remembered 
what he had said to me, i.e. 'Don't leave your place till I come back to you,' so I remained at my place 
till he came back to me. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I heard a voice and I was afraid." So I mentioned 
the whole story to him. He said, "Did you hear it?" I replied, "Yes." He said, "It was Gabriel who 
came to me and said, 'Whoever died without joining others in worship with Allah, will enter Paradise.' 
I asked (Gabriel), 'Even if he had committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse? Gabriel 
said, 'Yes, even if he had committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse."
Bukhari:6445 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah Apostle said, "If I had gold equal to the mountain of Uhud, it would not please me that anything 
of it should remain with me after three nights (i.e., I would spend all of it in Allah's Cause) except 
what I would keep for repaying debts."
Bukhari:6446 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wealth is not in having many possessions, but rather (true) wealth is feeling sufficiency in the soul."
Bukhari:6447 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`id:A man passed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) asked a man sitting beside him, "What is your 
opinion about this (passer-by)?" He replied, "This (passer-by) is from the noble class of people. By 
Allah, if he should ask for a lady's hand in marriage, he ought to be given her in marriage, and if he 
intercedes for somebody, his intercession will be accepted. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept quiet, and then 
another man passed by and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked the same man (his companion) again, "What is your 
opinion about this (second) one?" He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This person is one of the poor 
Muslims. If he should ask a lady's hand in marriage, no-one will accept him, and if he intercedes for 
somebody, no one will accept his intercession, and if he talks, no-one will listen to his talk." Then 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This (poor man) is better than such a large number of the first type (i.e. rich 
men) as to fill the earth."
Bukhari:6448 Narrated Abu Wail:We paid a visit to Khabbab who was sick, and he said, "We migrated with the Prophet (ﷺ) for Allah's 
Sake and our wages became due on Allah. Some of us died without having received anything of the 
wages, and one of them was Mus`ab bin `Umar, who was martyred on the day of the battle of Uhud, 
leaving only one sheet (to shroud him in). If we covered his head with it, his feet became uncovered, 
and if we covered his feet with it, his head became uncovered. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to cover his 
head with it and put some Idhkhir (a kind of grass) over his feet. On the other hand, some of us have 
had the fruits (of our good deed) and are plucking them (in this world).
Bukhari:6449 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked into Paradise and found that the majority of its dwellers were the poor 
people, and I looked into the (Hell) Fire and found that the majority of its dwellers were women."
Bukhari:6450 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not eat at a table till he died, and he did not eat a thin nicely baked wheat bread till he 
died.
Bukhari:6451 Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, nothing which can be eaten by a living creature was left on my shelf except 
some barley grain. I ate of it for a period and when I measured it, it finished.
Bukhari:6452 Narrated Abu Huraira:By Allah except Whom none has the right to- be worshipped, (sometimes) I used to lay (sleep) on the 
ground on my liver (abdomen) because of hunger, and (sometimes) I used to bind a stone over my 
belly because of hunger. One day I sat by the way from where they (the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions) 
used to come out. When Abu Bakr passed by, I asked him about a Verse from Allah's Book and I 
asked him only that he might satisfy my hunger, but he passed by and did not do so. Then `Umar 
passed by me and I asked him about a Verse from Allah's Book, and I asked him only that he might 
satisfy my hunger, but he passed by without doing so. Finally Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) passed by 
me and he smiled when he saw me, for he knew what was in my heart and on my face. He said, "O 
Aba Hirr (Abu Huraira)!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said to me, "Follow me." He left 
and I followed him. 
Then he entered the house and I asked permission to enter and was admitted. He found milk in a bowl 
and said, "From where is this milk?" They said, "It has been presented to you by such-and-such man 
(or by such and such woman)." He said, "O Aba Hirr!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, 
"Go and call the people of Suffa to me." These people of Suffa were the guests of Islam who had no 
families, nor money, nor anybody to depend upon, and whenever an object of charity was brought to 
the Prophet, he would send it to them and would not take anything from it, and whenever any present 
was given to him, he used to send some for them and take some of it for himself. The order of the 
Prophet upset me, and I said to myself, "How will this little milk be enough for the people of As- 
Suffa? though I was more entitled to drink from that milk in order to strengthen myself", but behold! 
The Prophet (ﷺ) came to order me to give that milk to them. I wondered what will remain of that milk for 
me, but anyway, I could not but obey Allah and His Apostle so I went to the people of As-Suffa and 
called them, and they came and asked the Prophet's permission to enter. They were admitted and took 
their seats in the house. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Aba-Hirr!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Take it and give it to 
them." So I took the bowl (of milk) and started giving it to one man who would drink his fill and 
return it to me, whereupon I would give it to another man who, in his turn, would drink his fill and 
return it to me, and I would then offer it to another man who would drink his fill and return it to me. 
Finally, after the whole group had drunk their fill, I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) who took the bowl and put it 
on his hand, looked at me and smiled and said. "O Aba Hirr!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" 
He said, "There remain you and I." I said, "You have said the truth, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Sit 
down and drink." I sat down and drank. He said, "Drink," and I drank. He kept on telling me 
repeatedly to drink, till I said, "No. by Allah Who sent you with the Truth, I have no space for it (in 
my stomach)." He said, "Hand it over to me." When I gave him the bowl, he praised Allah and 
pronounced Allah's Name on it and drank the remaining milk.
Bukhari:6453 Narrated Sa`d:I was the first man among the Arabs to throw an arrow for Allah's Cause. We used to fight in Allah's 
Cause while we had nothing to eat except the leaves of the Hubla and the Sumur trees (desert trees) so 
that we discharged excrement like that of sheep (i.e. unmixed droppings). Today the (people of the) 
tribe of Bani Asad teach me the laws of Islam. If so, then I am lost, and all my efforts of that hard time 
had gone in vain.
Bukhari:6454 Narrated `Aisha:The family of Muhammad had never eaten their fill of wheat bread for three successive days since 
they had migrated to Medina till the death of the Prophet.
Bukhari:6455 Narrated `Aisha:The family of Muhammad did not eat two meals on one day, but one of the two was of dates.
Bukhari:6456 Narrated `Aisha:The bed mattress of the Prophet (ﷺ) was made of a leather case stuffed with palm fibres.
Bukhari:6457 Narrated Qatada:We used to go to Anas bin Malik and see his baker standing (preparing the bread). Anas said, "Eat. I 
have not known that the Prophet (ﷺ) ever saw a thin well-baked loaf of bread till he died, and he never 
saw a roasted sheep with his eyes."
Bukhari:6458 Narrated `Aisha:A complete month would pass by during which we would not make a fire (for cooking), and our food 
used to be only dates and water unless we were given a present of some meat.
Bukhari:6459 Narrated `Aisha:that she said to `Urwa, "O, the son of my sister! We used to see three crescents in two months, and no 
fire used to be made in the houses of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (i.e. nothing used to be cooked)." `Urwa said, 
"What used to sustain you?" `Aisha said, "The two black things i.e. dates and water, except that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had neighbors from the Ansar who had some milch she-camels, and they used to give 
the Prophet (ﷺ) some milk from their house, and he used to make us drink it."
Bukhari:6460 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Give food to the family of Muhammad."
Bukhari:6461 Narrated Masruq:I asked `Aisha "What deed was the most beloved to the Prophet?" She said, "The regular constant 
one." I said, "At what time did he use to get up at night (for the Tahajjud night prayer)?' She said, "He 
used to get up on hearing (the crowing of) the cock (the last third of the night).
Bukhari:6462 Narrated `Aisha:The most beloved action to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was that whose doer did it continuously and regularly.
Bukhari:6463 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The deeds of anyone of you will not save you (from the (Hell) Fire)." They said, 
"Even you (will not be saved by your deeds), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "No, even I (will not be 
saved) unless and until Allah bestows His Mercy on me. Therefore, do good deeds properly, sincerely 
and moderately, and worship Allah in the forenoon and in the afternoon and during a part of the night, 
and always adopt a middle, moderate, regular course whereby you will reach your target (Paradise).
Bukhari:6464 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do good deeds properly, sincerely and moderately and know that your deeds 
will not make you enter Paradise, and that the most beloved deed to Allah is the most regular and 
constant even if it were little."
Bukhari:6465 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, "What deeds are loved most by Allah?" He said, "The most regular constant 
deeds even though they may be few." He added, 'Don't take upon yourselves, except the deeds which 
are within your ability."
Bukhari:6466 Narrated 'Alqama:I asked `Aisha, mother of the believers, "O mother of the believers! How were the deeds of the 
Prophet? Did he use to do extra deeds of worship on special days?" She said, "No, but his deeds were 
regular and constant, and who among you is able to do what the Prophet (ﷺ) was able to do (i.e. in 
worshipping Allah)?"
Bukhari:6467 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do good deeds properly, sincerely and moderately, and receive good news because 
one's good deeds will not make him enter Paradise." They asked, "Even you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He 
said, "Even I, unless and until Allah bestows His pardon and Mercy on me."
Bukhari:6468 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in prayer and then (after finishing it) ascended the pulpit and pointed with 
his hand towards the Qibla of the mosque and said, "While I was leading you in prayer, both Paradise 
and Hell were displayed in front of me in the direction of this wall. I had never seen a better thing 
(than Paradise) and a worse thing (than Hell) as I have seen today, I had never seen a better thing and 
a worse thing as I have seen today."
Bukhari:6469 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, Verily Allah created Mercy. The day He created it, He made it into one 
hundred parts. He withheld with Him ninety-nine parts, and sent its one part to all His creatures. Had 
the non-believer known of all the Mercy which is in the Hands of Allah, he would not lose hope of 
entering Paradise, and had the believer known of all the punishment which is present with Allah, he 
would not consider himself safe from the Hell-Fire."
Bukhari:6470 Narrated Abu Sa`id:Some people from the Ansar asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (to give them something) and he gave to everyone 
of them, who asked him, until all that he had was finished. When everything was finished and he had 
spent all that was in his hand, he said to them, '"(Know) that if I have any wealth, I will not withhold it 
from you (to keep for somebody else); And (know) that he who refrains from begging others (or doing 
prohibited deeds), Allah will make him contented and not in need of others; and he who remains 
patient, Allah will bestow patience upon him, and he who is satisfied with what he has, Allah will 
make him self-sufficient. And there is no gift better and vast (you may be given) than patience."
Bukhari:6471 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray so much that his feet used to become edematous or swollen, and when he 
was asked as to why he prays so much, he would say, "Shall I not be a thankful slave (to Allah)?"
Bukhari:6472 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, 
and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their 
trust in their Lord.
Bukhari:6473 Narrated Warrad:(the clerk of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba) Muawiya wrote to Al-Mughira: "Write to me a narration you 
have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." So Al-Mughira wrote to him, "I heard him saying the following 
after each prayer: 'La ilaha illal-lahu wahdahu la sharika lahu, lahu-l-mulk wa lahuI-hamd, wa huwa 
'ala kulli Shai-in qadir.' He also used to forbid idle talk, asking too many questions (in religion), 
wasting money, preventing what should be given, and asking others for something (except in great 
need), being undutiful to mothers, and burying one's little daughters (alive).
Bukhari:6474 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever can guarantee (the chastity of) what is between his two jaw-bones and 
what is between his two legs (i.e. his tongue and his private parts), I guarantee Paradise for him."
Bukhari:6475 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep 
quiet, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not hurt (or insult) his neighbor; and 
whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should entertain his guest generously."
Bukhari:6476 Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Khuza`i:My ears heard and my heart grasped (the statement which) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The period for keeping 
one's guest is three days (and don't forget) his reward." It was asked, "What is his reward?" He said, 
"In the first night and the day he should be given a high class quality of meals; and whoever believes 
in Allah and the Last Day, should entertain his guest generously; and whoever believes in Allah and 
the Last Day should talk what is good (sense) or keep quiet."
Bukhari:6477 Narrated Abu Huraira:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A slave of Allah may utter a word without thinking whether it 
is right or wrong, he may slip down in the Fire as far away a distance equal to that between the east."
Bukhari:6478 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet; said, "A slave (of Allah) may utter a word which pleases Allah without giving it much 
importance, and because of that Allah will raise him to degrees (of reward): a slave (of Allah) may 
utter a word (carelessly) which displeases Allah without thinking of its gravity and because of that he 
will be thrown into the Hell-Fire."
Bukhari:6479 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said Allah will give shade to seven (types of people) under His Shade (on the Day of 
Resurrection). (one of them will be) a person who remembers Allah and his eyes are then flooded with 
tears.
Bukhari:6480 Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There was a man amongst the people who had suspicion as to the righteousness of 
his deeds. Therefore he said to his family, 'If I die, take me and burn my corpse and throw my ashes 
into the sea on a hot (or windy) day.' They did so, but Allah, collected his particles and asked (him), 
What made you do what you did?' He replied, 'The only thing that made me do it, was that I was 
afraid of You.' So Allah forgave him."
Bukhari:6481 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned a man from the previous generation or from the people preceding your age 
whom Allah had given both wealth and children. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the time of his death 
approached, he asked his children, 'What type of father have I been to you?' They replied: You have 
been a good father. He said, 'But he (i.e. your father) has not stored any good deeds with Allah (for the 
Hereafter): if he should face Allah, Allah will punish him. So listen, (O my children), when I die, burn 
my body till I become mere coal and then grind it into powder, and when there is a stormy wind, 
throw me (my ashes) in it.' So he took a firm promise from his children (to follow his instructions). 
And by Allah they (his sons) did accordingly(fulfilled their promise.) Then Allah said, "Be"' and 
behold! That man was standing there! Allah then said. "O my slave! What made you do what you 
did?" That man said, "Fear of You." So Allah forgave him.
Bukhari:6482 Narrated Abu Musa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. "My example and the example of the message with which Allah has sent me is 
like that of a man who came to some people and said, "I have seen with my own eyes the enemy 
forces, and I am a naked warner (to you) so save yourself, save yourself! A group of them obeyed him 
and went out at night, slowly and stealthily and were safe, while another group did not believe him 
and thus the army took them in the morning and destroyed them."
Bukhari:6483 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "My example and the example of the people is that of a man who made 
a fire, and when it lighted what was around it, Moths and other insects started falling into the fire. The 
man tried (his best) to prevent them, (from falling in the fire) but they overpowered him and rushed 
into the fire. The Prophet (ﷺ) added: Now, similarly, I take hold of the knots at your waist (belts) to 
prevent you from falling into the Fire, but you insist on falling into it."
Bukhari:6484 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue or his hands. 
And a Muhajir (an emigrant) is the one who gives up (abandons) all what Allah has forbidden."
Bukhari:6485 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you knew that which I know you would laugh little and weep much."
Bukhari:6486 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you knew that which I know, you would laugh little and weep much."
Bukhari:6487 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (Hell) Fire is surrounded by all kinds of desires and passions, while 
Paradise is surrounded by all kinds of disliked undesirable things."
Bukhari:6488 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise is nearer to any of you than the Shirak (leather strap) of his shoe, and so is 
the (Hell) Fire.
Bukhari:6489 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The truest poetic verse ever said by a poet, is: Indeed! Everything except Allah, is 
perishable."
Bukhari:6490 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you looked at a person who was made superior to him in property 
and (in good) appearance, then he should also look at the one who is inferior to him.
Bukhari:6491 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) narrating about his Lord I'm and said, "Allah ordered (the appointed angels over you) that 
the good and the bad deeds be written, and He then showed (the way) how (to write). If somebody 
intends to do a good deed and he does not do it, then Allah will write for him a full good deed (in his 
account with Him); and if he intends to do a good deed and actually did it, then Allah will write for 
him (in his account) with Him (its reward equal) from ten to seven hundred times to many more times: 
and if somebody intended to do a bad deed and he does not do it, then Allah will write a full good 
deed (in his account) with Him, and if he intended to do it (a bad deed) and actually did it, then Allah 
will write one bad deed (in his account) ."
Bukhari:6492 Narrated Ghailan:Anas said "You people do (bad) deeds (commit sins) which seem in your eyes as tiny (minute) than 
hair while we used to consider those (very deeds) during the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ) as destructive 
sins."
Bukhari:6493 Narrated Sa`d bin Sahl As-Sa`idi:The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at a man fighting against the pagans and he was one of the most competent 
persons fighting on behalf of the Muslims. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let him who wants to look at a man 
from the dwellers of the (Hell) Fire, look at this (man)." Another man followed him and kept on 
following him till he (the fighter) was injured and, seeking to die quickly, he placed the blade tip of 
his sword between his breasts and leaned over it till it passed through his shoulders (i.e., committed 
suicide)." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "A person may do deeds that seem to the people as the deeds of the 
people of Paradise while in fact, he is from the dwellers of the (Hell) Fire: and similarly a person may 
do deeds that seem to the people as the deeds of the people of the (Hell) Fire while in fact, he is from 
the dwellers of Paradise. Verily, the (results of) deeds done, depend upon the last actions."
Bukhari:6494 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is the best of mankind!" The 
Prophet said, "A man who strives for Allah's Cause with his life and property, and also a man who 
lives (all alone) in a mountain path among the mountain paths to worship his Lord and save the people 
from his evil."
Bukhari:6495 Narrated Abu Sa`id:I heard from the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will come a time upon the people when the best property of a 
Muslim will be sheep which he will take to the tops of mountains and to the places of rainfall, run 
away with his religion (in order to save it) from afflictions."
Bukhari:6496 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When honesty is lost, then wait for the Hour." It was asked, "How will honesty 
be lost, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "When authority is given to those who do not deserve it, then 
wait for the Hour."
Bukhari:6497 Narrated Hudhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) narrated to us two narrations, one of which I have seen (happening) and I am waiting 
for the other. He narrated that honesty was preserved in the roots of the hearts of men (in the 
beginning) and then they learnt it (honesty) from the Qur'an, and then they learnt it from the 
(Prophet's) Sunna (tradition). He also told us about its disappearance, saying, "A man will go to sleep 
whereupon honesty will be taken away from his heart, and only its trace will remain, resembling the 
traces of fire. He then will sleep whereupon the remainder of the honesty will also be taken away 
(from his heart) and its trace will resemble a blister which is raised over the surface of skin, when an 
ember touches one's foot; and in fact, this blister does not contain anything. So there will come a day 
when people will deal in business with each other but there will hardly be any trustworthy persons 
among them. Then it will be said that in such-and-such a tribe there is such-and-such person who is 
honest, and a man will be admired for his intelligence, good manners and strength, though indeed he 
will not have belief equal to a mustard seed in his heart." The narrator added: There came upon me a 
time when I did not mind dealing with anyone of you, for if he was a Muslim, his religion would 
prevent him from cheating; and if he was a Christian, his Muslim ruler would prevent him from 
cheating; but today I cannot deal except with so-and-so and so-and-so. (See Hadith No. 208, Vol. 9)
Bukhari:6498 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "People are just like camels, out of one hundred, one can hardly find a 
single camel suitable to ride."
Bukhari:6499 Narrated Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who lets the people hear of his good deeds intentionally, to win their praise, 
Allah will let the people know his real intention (on the Day of Resurrection), and he who does good 
things in public to show off and win the praise of the people, Allah will disclose his real intention (and 
humiliate him).
Bukhari:6500 Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal:While I was riding behind the Prophet (ﷺ) as a companion rider and there was nothing between me and 
him except the back of the saddle, he said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! And 
Sa`daik!" He proceeded for a while and then said, "O Mu`adh!" I said, "Labbaik and Sa`daik, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He then proceeded for another while and said, "O Mu`adh bin Jabal!" I replied, 
"Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Sa`daik!" He said, "Do you know what is Allah's right on His 
slaves?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "Allah's right on his slaves is that 
they should worship Him and not worship anything besides Him." He then proceeded for a while, and 
again said, "O Mu`adh bin Jabal!" I replied. "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Sa`daik." He said, "Do 
you know what is (Allah's) slaves' (people's) right on Allah if they did that?" I replied, "Allah and His 
Apostle know better." He said, "The right of (Allah's) slaves on Allah is that He should not punish 
them (if they did that).
Bukhari:6501 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a she-camel called Al-`Adba' and it was too fast to surpass in speed. There came a 
bedouin riding a camel of his, and that camel outstripped it (i.e. Al-Aqba'). That result was hard on the 
Muslims who said sorrowfully, "Al- Adba has been outstripped." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is due from 
Allah that nothing would be raised high in this world except that He lowers or puts it down."
Bukhari:6502 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'I will declare war against him who shows hostility to a pious 
worshipper of Mine. And the most beloved things with which My slave comes nearer to Me, is what I 
have enjoined upon him; and My slave keeps on coming closer to Me through performing Nawafil 
(praying or doing extra deeds besides what is obligatory) till I love him, so I become his sense of 
hearing with which he hears, and his sense of sight with which he sees, and his hand with which he 
grips, and his leg with which he walks; and if he asks Me, I will give him, and if he asks My 
protection (Refuge), I will protect him; (i.e. give him My Refuge) and I do not hesitate to do anything 
as I hesitate to take the soul of the believer, for he hates death, and I hate to disappoint him."
Bukhari:6503 Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two," showing his two 
fingers and sticking (separating) them out.
Bukhari:6504 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two (fingers).
Bukhari:6505 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two (fingers).
Bukhari:6506 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till the sun rises from the west, and when it 
rises (from the west) and the people see it, then all of them will believe (in Allah). But that will be the 
time when 'No good it will do to a soul to believe then. If it believed not before.."' (6.158) 
The Hour will be established (so suddenly) that two persons spreading a garment between them will 
not be able to finish their bargain, nor will they be able to fold it up. The Hour will be established 
while a man is carrying the milk of his she-camel, but cannot drink it; and the Hour will be established 
when someone is not able to prepare the tank to water his livestock from it; and the Hour will be 
established when some of you has raised his food to his mouth but cannot eat it."
Bukhari:6507 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who-ever loves to meet Allah, Allah (too) loves to meet him and who-ever hates to 
meet Allah, Allah (too) hates to meet him". `Aisha, or some of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But we 
dislike death." He said: It is not like this, but it is meant that when the time of the death of a believer 
approaches, he receives the good news of Allah's pleasure with him and His blessings upon him, and 
so at that time nothing is dearer to him than what is in front of him. He therefore loves the meeting 
with Allah, and Allah (too) loves the meeting with him. But when the time of the death of a 
disbeliever approaches, he receives the evil news of Allah's torment and His Requital, whereupon 
nothing is more hateful to him than what is before him. Therefore, he hates the meeting with Allah, 
and Allah too, hates the meeting with him."
Bukhari:6508 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever loves to meet  Allah, Allah loves to meet him; and whoever hates to meet Allah, Allah hates to meet him."
Bukhari:6509 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in good health, he used to say, "No prophet's soul 
is ever captured unless he is shown his place in Paradise and given the option (to die or survive)." So 
when the death of the Prophet (ﷺ) approached and his head was on my thigh, he became unconscious for a 
while and then he came to his senses and fixed his eyes on the ceiling and said, "O Allah (with) the 
highest companions." (See Qur'an 4:69). I said' "Hence he is not going to choose us." And I came to 
know that it was the application of the narration which he (the Prophet) used to narrate to us. And that 
was the last statement of the Prophet (before his death) i.e., "O Allah! With the highest companions." 
(See Qur'an 4:69)
Bukhari:6510 Narrated `Aisha:There was a leather or wood container full of water in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (at the time of his 
death). He would put his hand into the water and rub his face with it, saying, "None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah! No doubt, death has its stupors." Then he raised his hand and started saying, 
"(O Allah!) with the highest companions." (See Qur'an 4:69) (and kept on saying it) till he expired and 
his hand dropped."
Bukhari:6511 Narrated `Aisha:Some rough bedouins used to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) and ask him, "When will the Hour be?" He would look 
at the youngest of all of them and say, "If this should live till he is very old, your Hour (the death of 
the people addressed) will take place." Hisham said that he meant (by the Hour), their death.
Bukhari:6512 Narrated Abu Qatada bin Rib'i Al-Ansari:A funeral procession passed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Relieved or relieving?" The people asked, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is relieved and relieving?" He said, "A believer is relieved (by death) from 
the troubles and hardships of the world and leaves for the Mercy of Allah, while (the death of) a 
wicked person relieves the people, the land, the trees, (and) the animals from him."
Bukhari:6513 Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Relieved or relieving. And a believer is relieved (by death).
Bukhari:6514 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When carried to his grave, a dead person is followed by three, two of which 
return (after his burial) and one remains with him: his relative, his property, and his deeds follow him; 
relatives and his property go back while his deeds remain with him."
Bukhari:6515 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you dies, his destination is displayed before him in the 
forenoon and in the afternoon, either in the (Hell) Fire or in Paradise, and it is said to him, "That is 
your place till you are resurrected and sent to it."
Bukhari:6516 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not abuse the dead, for they have reached the result of what they have done."
Bukhari:6517 Narrated Abu Huraira:Two men, a Muslim and a Jew, abused each other. The Muslim said, "By Him Who gave superiority 
to Muhammad over all the people." On that, the Jew said, "By Him Who gave superiority to Moses 
over all the people." The Muslim became furious at that and slapped the Jew in the face. The Jew went 
to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him of what had happened between him and the Muslim. Allah's 
Apostle said, "Don't give me superiority over Moses, for the people will fall unconscious on the Day 
of Resurrection and I will be the first to gain consciousness, and behold ! Moses will be there holding 
the side of Allah's Throne. I will not know whether Moses has been among those people who have 
become unconscious and then has regained consciousness before me, or has been among those 
exempted by Allah from falling unconscious."
Bukhari:6518 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will fall down unconscious at the time when they should fall down (i.e., 
on the Day of Resurrection), and then I will be the first man to get up, and behold, Moses will be there 
holding (Allah's) Throne. I will not know whether he has been amongst those who have fallen 
unconscious."
Bukhari:6519 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will take the whole earth (in His Hand) and will roll up the Heaven in His 
right Hand, and then He will say, "I am King! Where are the kings of the earth ? "
Bukhari:6520 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The (planet of) earth will be a bread on the Day of Resurrection, and The resistible 
(Allah) will topple turn it with His Hand like anyone of you topple turns a bread with his hands while 
(preparing the bread) for a journey, and that bread will be the entertainment for the people of 
Paradise." A man from the Jews came (to the Prophet) and said, "May The Beneficent (Allah) bless 
you, O Abul Qasim! Shall I tell you of the entertainment of the people of Paradise on the Day of 
Resurrection?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." The Jew said, "The earth will be a bread," as the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
said. Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) looked at us and smiled till his premolar tooth became visible. Then the 
Jew further said, "Shall I tell you of the udm (additional food taken with bread) they will have with 
the bread?" He added, "That will be Balam and Nun." The people asked, "What is that?" He said, "It 
is an ox and a fish, and seventy thousand people will eat of the caudate lobe (i.e. extra lobe) of their 
livers."
Bukhari:6521 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The people will be gathered on the Day of Resurrection on reddish white 
land like a pure loaf of bread (made of pure fine flour)." Sahl added: That land will have no landmarks 
for anybody (to make use of).
Bukhari:6522 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will be gathered in three ways: (The first way will be of) those who 
will wish or have a hope (for Paradise) and will have a fear (of punishment), (The second batch will 
be those who will gather) riding two on a camel or three on a camel or ten on a camel. (The third 
batch) the rest of the people will be urged to gather by the Fire which will accompany them at the time 
of their afternoon nap and stay with them where they will spend the night, and will be with them in the 
morning wherever they may be then, and will be with them in the afternoon wherever they may be 
then."
Bukhari:6523 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man said, "O Allah's Prophet! Will a Kafir (disbeliever) be gathered (driven prone) on his face?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is not He Who made him walk with his legs in this world, able to make him walk 
on his face on the Day of Resurrection?" (Qatada, a sub-narrator said: Yes, (He can), by the Power of 
Our Lord!")
Bukhari:6524 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will meet Allah barefooted, naked, walking on feet, and uncircumcised."
Bukhari:6525 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was delivering a sermon on a pulpit, saying, "You will meet Allah 
barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised."
Bukhari:6526 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up among us and addressed (saying) "You will be gathered, barefooted, naked, and 
uncircumcised (as Allah says): 'As We began the first creation, We shall repeat it..' (21.104) And the 
first human being to be dressed on the Day of Resurrection will be (the Prophet) Abraham Al-Khalil. 
Then will be brought some men of my followers who will be taken towards the left (i.e., to the Fire), 
and I will say: 'O Lord! My companions whereupon Allah will say: You do not know what they did 
after you left them. I will then say as the pious slave, Jesus said, And I was witness over them while I 
dwelt amongst them..........(up to) ...the All-Wise.' (5.117-118). The narrator added: Then it will be 
said that those people (relegated from Islam, that is) kept on turning on their heels (deserted Islam).
Bukhari:6527 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will be gathered barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised." I said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will the men and the women look at each other?" He said, "The situation will be too 
hard for them to pay attention to that."
Bukhari:6528 Narrated `Abdullah:While we were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in a tent he said, ''Would it please you to be one fourth 
of the people of Paradise?" We said, "Yes." He said, "Would It please you to be one-third of the 
people of Paradise?" We said, "Yes." He said, "Would it please you to be half of the people of 
Paradise?" We said, "Yes." Thereupon he said, "I hope that you will be one half of the people of 
Paradise, for none will enter Paradise but a Muslim soul, and you people, in comparison to the people 
who associate others in worship with Allah, are like a white hair on the skin of a black ox, or a black 
hair on the skin of a red ox."
Bukhari:6529 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The first man to be called on the Day of Resurrection will be Adam who will be 
shown his offspring, and it will be said to them, 'This is your father, Adam.' Adam will say 
(responding to the call), 'Labbaik and Sa`daik' Then Allah will say (to Adam), 'Take out of your 
offspring, the people of Hell.' Adam will say, 'O Lord, how many should I take out?' Allah will say, 
'Take out ninety-nine out of every hundred." They (the Prophet's companions) said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! If ninety-nine out of every one hundred of us are taken away, what will remain out of us?" 
He said, "My followers in comparison to the other nations are like a white hair on a black ox."
Bukhari:6530 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say, 'O Adam!. Adam will reply, 'Labbaik and Sa`daik (I respond to 
Your Calls, I am obedient to Your orders), wal Khair fi Yadaik (and all the good is in Your Hands)!' 
Then Allah will say (to Adam), Bring out the people of the Fire.' Adam will say, 'What (how many) 
are the people of the Fire?' Allah will say, 'Out of every thousand (take out) nine hundred and ninety-nine 
(persons).' At that time children will become hoary-headed and every pregnant female will drop 
her load (have an abortion) and you will see the people as if they were drunk, yet not drunk; But 
Allah's punishment will be very severe." 
That news distressed the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) too much, and they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Who amongst us will be that man (the lucky one out of one-thousand who will be saved from the 
Fire)?" He said, "Have the good news that one-thousand will be from Gog and Magog, and the one (to 
be saved will be) from you." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I Hope that 
you (Muslims) will be one third of the people of Paradise." On that, we glorified and praised Allah 
and said, "Allahu Akbar." The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I hope that you 
will be one half of the people of Paradise, as your (Muslims) example in comparison to the other 
people (non-Muslims), is like that of a white hair on the skin of a black ox, or a round hairless spot on 
the foreleg of a donkey."
Bukhari:6531 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (regarding the Verse), "A Day when all mankind will stand before the Lord of the 
Worlds,' (that day) they will stand, drowned in their sweat up to the middle of their ears."
Bukhari:6532 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will sweat so profusely on the Day of Resurrection that their sweat 
will sink seventy cubits deep into the earth, and it will rise up till it reaches the people's mouths and 
ears."
Bukhari:6533 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The cases which will be decided first (on the Day of Resurrection) will be the cases 
of blood-shedding. "
Bukhari:6534 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has wronged his brother, should ask for his pardon (before his death), 
as (in the Hereafter) there will be neither a Dinar nor a Dirham. (He should secure pardon in this life) 
before some of his good deeds are taken and paid to his brother, or, if he has done no good deeds, 
some of the bad deeds of his brother are taken to be loaded on him (in the Hereafter).
Bukhari:6535 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The believers, after being saved from the (Hell) Fire, will be stopped at a bridge 
between Paradise and Hell and mutual retaliation will be established among them regarding wrongs 
they have committed in the world against one another. After they are cleansed and purified (through 
the retaliation), they will be admitted into Paradise; and by Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, 
everyone of them will know his dwelling in Paradise better than he knew his dwelling in this world."
Bukhari:6536 Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:`Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Anybody whose account (record) is questioned will surely be 
punished.' I said, 'Doesn't Allah say: 'He surely will receive an easy reckoning?' (84.8) The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied. 'This means only the presentation of the account."'Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (as above, 543).
Bukhari:6537 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), said, "None will be called to account on the Day of Resurrection, but will be ruined." 
I said "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Hasn't Allah said: 'Then as for him who will be given his record in his right 
hand, he surely will receive an easy reckoning? (84.7-8) -- Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "That (Verse) means 
only the presentation of the accounts, but anybody whose account (record) is questioned on the Day of 
Resurrection, will surely be punished."
Bukhari:6538 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Prophet used to say, "A disbeliever will be brought on the Day of Resurrection and will be 
asked. "Suppose you had as much gold as to fill the earth, would you offer it to ransom yourself?" He 
will reply, "Yes." Then it will be said to him, "You were asked for something easier than that (to join 
none in worship with Allah (i.e. to accept Islam, but you refused).
Bukhari:6539 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but will be talked to by Allah on the Day of 
Resurrection, without there being an interpreter between him and Him (Allah) . He will look and see 
nothing ahead of him, and then he will look (again for the second time) in front of him, and the (Hell) 
Fire will confront him. So, whoever among you can save himself from the Fire, should do so even 
with one half of a date (to give in charity).
Bukhari:6540 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Protect yourself from the Fire." He then turned his face aside (as if he were looking 
at it) and said again, "Protect yourself from the Fire," and then turned his face aside (as if he were 
looking at it), and he said so for the third time till we thought he was looking at it. He then said, 
"Protect yourselves from the Fire, even if with one half of a date and he who hasn't got even this, 
(should do so) by (saying) a good, pleasant word.'
Bukhari:6541 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people were displayed in front of me and I saw one prophet passing by with a 
large group of his followers, and another prophet passing by with only a small group of people, and 
another prophet passing by with only ten (persons), and another prophet passing by with only five 
(persons), and another prophet passed by alone. And then I looked and saw a large multitude of 
people, so I asked Gabriel, "Are these people my followers?' He said, 'No, but look towards the 
horizon.' I looked and saw a very large multitude of people. Gabriel said. 'Those are your followers, 
and those are seventy thousand (persons) in front of them who will neither have any reckoning of their 
accounts nor will receive any punishment.' I asked, 'Why?' He said, 'For they used not to treat 
themselves with branding (cauterization) nor with Ruqya (get oneself treated by the recitation of some 
Verses of the Qur'an) and not to see evil omen in things, and they used to put their trust (only) in their 
Lord." On hearing that, 'Ukasha bin Mihsan got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to make 
me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, make him one of them." Then another man got up and 
said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Ukasha has preceded 
you."
Bukhari:6542 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "From my followers there will enter Paradise a crowd, seventy 
thousand in number, whose faces will glitter as the moon does when it is full." On hearing that, 
'Ukasha bin Mihsan Al-Asdi got up, lifting his covering sheet, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke 
Allah that He may make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, make him one of them." 
Another man from the Ansar got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of 
them. "The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "'Ukasha has preceded you."
Bukhari:6543 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seventy-thousand or seven-hundred thousand of my followers (the narrator is in 
doubt as to the correct number) will enter Paradise holding each other till the first and the last of them 
enter Paradise at the same time, and their faces will have a glitter like that of the moon at night when it 
is full."
Bukhari:6544 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet; said, "The people of Paradise will enter Paradise, and the people of the (Hell) Fire will 
enter the (Hell) Fire: then a call-maker will get up (and make an announcement) among them, 'O the 
people of the (Hell) Fire! No death anymore ! And O people of Paradise! No death (anymore) but 
Eternity."
Bukhari:6545 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " It will be said to the people of Paradise, 'O people of Paradise! Eternity (for you) 
and no death,' and to the people of the Fire, 'O people of the Fire, eternity (for you) and no death!"
Bukhari:6546 Narrated `Imran:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked into paradise and saw that the majority of its people were the poor, and I 
looked into the Fire and found that the majority of its people were women."
Bukhari:6547 Narrated Usama:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I stood at the gate of Paradise and saw that the majority of the people who had 
entered it were poor people, while the rich were forbidden (to enter along with the poor, because they 
were waiting the reckoning of their accounts), but the people of the Fire had been ordered to be driven 
to the Fire. And I stood at the gate of the Fire and found that the majority of the people entering it 
were women."
Bukhari:6548 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the people of Paradise have entered Paradise and the people of the Fire 
have entered the Fire, death will be brought and will be placed between the Fire and Paradise, and 
then it will be slaughtered, and a call will be made (that), 'O people of Paradise, no more death ! O 
people of the Fire, no more death ! ' So the people of Paradise will have happiness added to their 
previous happiness, and the people of the Fire will have sorrow added to their previous sorrow."
Bukhari:6549 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to the people of Paradise, 'O the people of Paradise!' They will 
say, 'Labbaik, O our Lord, and Sa`daik!' Allah will say, 'Are you pleased?" They will say, 'Why 
should we not be pleased since You have given us what You have not given to anyone of Your 
creation?' Allah will say, 'I will give you something better than that.' They will reply, 'O our Lord! 
And what is better than that?' Allah will say, 'I will bestow My pleasure and contentment upon you so 
that I will never be angry with you after for-ever.' "
Bukhari:6550 Narrated Anas:Haritha was martyred on the day (of the battle) of Badr while he was 
     young. His mother came to the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You 
     know the relation of Haritha to me (how fond of him I was); so, if he 
     is in Paradise, I will remain patient and wish for Allah's reward, but
     if he is not there, then you will see what I will do." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
     replied, "May Allah be merciful upon you! Have you gone mad? (Do you 
     think) it is one Paradise? There are many Paradises and he is in the 
     (most superior) Paradise of Al-Firdaus."
Bukhari:6551 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The width between the two shoulders of a Kafir 
     (disbeliever) will be equal to the distance covered by a fast rider in
     three days."
Bukhari:6552 Narrated Sahl bin Sa'd:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "In Paradise there is a tree so big that in its 
     shade a rider may travel for one hundred years without being able to 
     cross it."
Bukhari:6553 Narrated Abu Sa'id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is a tree in Paradise (so huge) that a fast 
     (or a trained) rider may travel: for one hundred years without being 
     able to cross it.
Bukhari:6554 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Seventy thousand or seven hundred thousand of my followers will enter 
Paradise. (Abu Hazim, the sub-narrator, is not sure as to which of the two numbers is correct.) They 
will be holding on to each other, the first will not entering the last one does, their faces like the moon 
on a full moon night."
Bukhari:6555 Narrated Sahl:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Paradise will see the Ghuraf (special abodes) in Paradise as you see 
a star in the sky."
Bukhari:6556 Abu Sa`id added:"As you see a glittering star remaining in the eastern horizon and 
the western horizon."
Bukhari:6557 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to the person who will have the minimum punishment in the Fire on 
the Day of Resurrection, 'If you had things equal to whatever is on the earth, would you ransom 
yourself (from the punishment) with it?' He will reply, Yes. Allah will say, 'I asked you a much easier 
thing than this while you were in the backbone of Adam, that is, not to worship others besides Me, but 
you refused and insisted to worship others besides Me."'
Bukhari:6558 Narrated Hammad from `Amr from Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will come out of the Fire through intercession looking like The 
Thaarir." I asked `Amr, "What is the Thaarir?" He said, Ad Dagh`Abis, and at that time he was 
toothless. Hammad added: I said to `Amr bin Dinar, "O Abu Muhammad! Did you hear Jabir bin 
`Abdullah saying, 'I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: 'Some people will come out of the Fire through 
intercession?" He said, "Yes. "
Bukhari:6559 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will come out of the Fire after they have received a touch of the Fire, 
changing their color, and they will enter Paradise, and the people of Paradise will name them 'Al- 
Jahannamiyin' the (Hell) Fire people."
Bukhari:6560 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the people of Paradise have entered Paradise, and the people of the Fire 
have entered the Fire, Allah will say. 'Take out (of the Fire) whoever has got faith equal to a mustard 
seed in his heart.' They will come out, and by that time they would have burnt and became like coal, 
and then they will be thrown into the river of Al-Hayyat (life) and they will spring up just as a seed 
grows on the bank of a rainwater stream." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't you see that the germinating seed 
comes out yellow and twisted?"
Bukhari:6561 Narrated An-Nu`man:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The person who will have the least punishment from amongst the Hell 
Fire people on the Day of Resurrection, will be a man under whose arch of the feet a smoldering 
ember will be placed so that his brain will boil because of it."
Bukhari:6562 Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The least punished person of the (Hell) Fire people on the Day of 
Resurrection will be a man under whose arch of the feet two smoldering embers will be placed, 
because of which his brain will boil just like Al-Mirjal (copper vessel) or a Qum-qum (narrow-necked 
vessel) is boiling with water."
Bukhari:6563 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the Fire and turned his face aside and asked for Allah's protection from it, and 
then again he mentioned the Fire and turned his face aside and asked for Allah's protection from it and 
said, "Protect yourselves from the Hell-Fire, even if with one half of a date, and he who cannot afford 
that, then (let him do so) by (saying) a good, pleasant word."
Bukhari:6564 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s when his uncle, Abu Talib had been mentioned in his presence, saying, "May 
be my intercession will help him (Abu Talib) on the Day of Resurrection so that he may be put in a 
shallow place in the Fire, with fire reaching his ankles and causing his brain to boil."
Bukhari:6565 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will gather all the people on the Day of Resurrection and they will say, 
'Let us request someone to intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us from this place of 
ours.' 
Then they will go to Adam and say, 'You are the one whom Allah created with His Own Hands, and 
breathed in you of His soul, and ordered the angels to prostrate to you; so please intercede for us with 
our Lord.' Adam will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking, and will remember his sin, and will say, 
'Go to Noah, the first Apostle sent by Allah' 
They will go to him and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking', and will remember his sin and 
say, 'Go to Abraham whom Allah took as a Khalil. 
They will go to him (and request similarly). He will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and will 
remember his sin and say, 'Go to Moses to whom Allah spoke directly.' 
They will go to Moses and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and will remember his sin 
and say, 'Go to Jesus.' 
They will go to him, and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking, go to Muhammad as Allah has 
forgiven his past and future sins.' 
They will come to me and I will ask my Lord's permission, and when I see Him, I will fall down in 
prostration to Him, and He will leave me in that state as long as (He) Allah will, and then I will be 
addressed. 'Raise up your head (O Muhammad)! Ask, and your request will be granted, and say, and 
your saying will be listened to; intercede, and your intercession will be accepted.' Then I will raise my 
head, and I will glorify and praise my Lord with a saying(i.e. invocation) He will teach me, and then I 
will intercede, Allah will fix a limit for me (i.e., certain type of people for whom I may intercede), and 
I will take them out of the (Hell) Fire and let them enter Paradise. Then I will come back (to Allah) 
and fall in prostration, and will do the same for the third and fourth times till no-one remains in the 
(Hell) Fire except those whom the Qur'an has imprisoned therein." (The sub-narrator, Qatada used to 
say at that point, "...those upon whom eternity (in Hell) has been imposed.") (See Hadith No. 3, Vol 
6).
Bukhari:6566 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will be taken out of the Fire through the intercession of Muhammad 
they will enter Paradise and will be called Al-Jahannamiyin (the Hell Fire people).
Bukhari:6567 Narrated Anas:Um (the mother of) Haritha came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after Haritha had been martyred on the Day (of 
the battle) of Badr by an arrow thrown by an unknown person. She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You 
know the position of Haritha in my heart (i.e. how dear to me he was), so if he is in Paradise, I will not 
weep for him, or otherwise, you will see what I will do." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you mad? Is there 
only one Paradise? There are many Paradises, and he is in the highest Paradise of Firdaus." The 
Prophet added, "A forenoon journey or an after noon journey in Allah's Cause is better than the whole 
world and whatever is in it; and a place equal to an arrow bow of anyone of you, or a place equal to a 
foot in Paradise is better than the whole world and whatever is in it; and if one of the women of 
Paradise looked at the earth, she would fill the whole space between them (the earth and the heaven) 
with light, and would fill whatever is in between them, with perfume, and the veil of her face is better 
than the whole world and whatever is in it."
Bukhari:6568 Narrated Anas:Um (the mother of) Haritha came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after Haritha had been martyred on the Day (of 
the battle) of Badr by an arrow thrown by an unknown person. She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You 
know the position of Haritha in my heart (i.e. how dear to me he was), so if he is in Paradise, I will not 
weep for him, or otherwise, you will see what I will do." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you mad? Is there 
only one Paradise? There are many Paradises, and he is in the highest Paradise of Firdaus." The 
Prophet added, "A forenoon journey or an after noon journey in Allah's Cause is better than the whole 
world and whatever is in it; and a place equal to an arrow bow of anyone of you, or a place equal to a 
foot in Paradise is better than the whole world and whatever is in it; and if one of the women of 
Paradise looked at the earth, she would fill the whole space between them (the earth and the heaven) 
with light, and would fill whatever is in between them, with perfume, and the veil of her face is better 
than the whole world and whatever is in it."
Bukhari:6569 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None will enter Paradise but will be shown the place he would have occupied in 
the (Hell) Fire if he had rejected faith, so that he may be more thankful; and none will enter the (Hell) 
Fire but will be shown the place he would have occupied in Paradise if he had faith, so that may be a 
cause of sorrow for him."
Bukhari:6570 Narrated Abu Huraira:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who will be the luckiest person who will gain your intercession on the Day 
of Resurrection?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Huraira! I have thought that none will ask me about this 
Hadith before you, as I know your longing for the (learning of) Hadiths. The luckiest person who will 
have my intercession on the Day of Resurrection will be the one who said, 'None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah,' sincerely from the bottom of his heart."
Bukhari:6571 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know the person who will be the last to come out of the (Hell) Fire, and the last to 
enter Paradise. He will be a man who will come out of the (Hell) Fire crawling, and Allah will say to 
him, 'Go and enter Paradise.' He will go to it, but he will imagine that it had been filled, and then he 
will return and say, 'O Lord, I have found it full.' Allah will say, 'Go and enter Paradise, and you will 
have what equals the world and ten times as much (or, you will have as much as ten times the like of 
the world).' On that, the man will say, 'Do you mock at me (or laugh at me) though You are the 
King?" I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (while saying that) smiling that his premolar teeth became visible. It is 
said that will be the lowest in degree amongst the people of Paradise.
Bukhari:6572 Narrated `Abbas:that he said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Did you benefit Abu Talib with anything?"
Bukhari:6573 Narrated Abu Huraira:Some people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" He said, 
"Do you crowd and squeeze each other on looking at the sun when it is not hidden by clouds?" They 
replied, "No, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "Do you crowd and squeeze each other on looking at the 
moon when it is full and not hidden by clouds?" They replied, No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "So 
you will see Him (your Lord) on the Day of Resurrection similarly Allah will gather all the people and 
say, 'Whoever used to worship anything should follow that thing. 'So, he who used to worship the sun, 
will follow it, and he who used to worship the moon will follow it, and he who used to worship false 
deities will follow them; and then only this nation (i.e., Muslims) will remain, including their 
hypocrites. Allah will come to them in a shape other than they know and will say, 'I am your Lord.' 
They will say, 'We seek refuge with Allah from you. This is our place; (we will not follow you) till 
our Lord comes to us, and when our Lord comes to us, we will recognize Him. 
Then Allah will come to then in a shape they know and will say, "I am your Lord.' They will say, '(No 
doubt) You are our Lord,' and they will follow Him. Then a bridge will be laid over the (Hell) Fire." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "I will be the first to cross it. And the invocation of the Apostles on that Day, 
will be 'Allahumma Sallim, Sallim (O Allah, save us, save us!),' and over that bridge there will be 
hooks Similar to the thorns of As Sa'dan (a thorny tree). Didn't you see the thorns of As-Sa'dan?" The 
companions said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He added, "So the hooks over that bridge will be like the 
thorns of As-Sa-dan except that their greatness in size is only known to Allah. These hooks will snatch 
the people according to their deeds. Some people will be ruined because of their evil deeds, and some 
will be cut into pieces and fall down in Hell, but will be saved afterwards, when Allah has finished the 
judgments among His slaves, and intends to take out of the Fire whoever He wishes to take out from 
among those who used to testify that none had the right to be worshipped but Allah. 
We will order the angels to take them out and the angels will know them by the mark of the traces of 
prostration (on their foreheads) for Allah banned the f ire to consume the traces of prostration on the 
body of Adam's son. So they will take them out, and by then they would have burnt (as coal), and then 
water, called Ma'ul Hayat (water of life) will be poured on them, and they will spring out like a seed 
springs out on the bank of a rainwater stream, and there will remain one man who will be facing the 
(Hell) Fire and will say, 'O Lord! It's (Hell's) vapor has Poisoned and smoked me and its flame has 
burnt me; please turn my face away from the Fire.' He will keep on invoking Allah till Allah says, 
'Perhaps, if I give you what you want), you will ask for another thing?' The man will say, 'No, by Your 
Power, I will not ask You for anything else.' 
Then Allah will turn his face away from the Fire. The man will say after that, 'O Lord, bring me near 
the gate of Paradise.' Allah will say (to him), 'Didn't you promise not to ask for anything else? Woe to 
you, O son of Adam ! How treacherous you are!' The man will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will 
say, 'But if I give you that, you may ask me for something else.' The man will say, 'No, by Your 
Power. I will not ask for anything else.' He will give Allah his covenant and promise not to ask for 
anything else after that. So Allah will bring him near to the gate of Paradise, and when he sees what is 
in it, he will remain silent as long as Allah will, and then he will say, 'O Lord! Let me enter Paradise.' 
Allah will say, 'Didn't you promise that you would not ask Me for anything other than that? Woe to 
you, O son of Adam ! How treacherous you are!' On that, the man will say, 'O Lord! Do not make me 
the most wretched of Your creation,' and will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will smile and when 
Allah will smile because of him, then He will allow him to enter Paradise, and when he will enter 
Paradise, he will be addressed, 'Wish from so-and-so.' He will wish till all his wishes will be fulfilled, 
then Allah will say, All this (i.e. what you have wished for) and as much again therewith are for you.' 
" 
Abu Huraira added: That man will be the last of the people of Paradise to enter (Paradise).
Bukhari:6574 Narrated 'Ata (while Abu Huraira was narrating (see previous hadith)):Abu Sa`id was sitting in the company of Abu 
Huraira and he did not deny anything of his narration till he reached his saying: "All this and as much 
again therewith are for you." Then Abu Sa`id said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'This is for you 
and ten times as much.' " Abu Huraira said, "In my memory it is 'as much again therewith.' "
Bukhari:6575 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount."
Bukhari:6576 `Abdullah added:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I 
am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount, and some of you will be brought in front of me till I will see 
them and then they will be taken away from me and I will say, 'O Lord, my companions!' It will be 
said, 'You do not know what they did after you had left.'
Bukhari:6577 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be a tank (Lake-Fount) in front of you as large as the distance between 
Jarba and Adhruh (two towns in Sham).
Bukhari:6578 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The word 'Al-Kauthar' means the abundant good which Allah gave to him (the Prophet (ﷺ) Muhammad). 
Abu Bishr said: I said to Sa`id, "Some people claim that it (Al-Kauthar) is a river in Paradise." Sa`id 
replied, "The river which is in Paradise is one item of that good which Allah has bestowed upon him 
(Muhammad).
Bukhari:6579 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My Lake-Fount is (so large that it takes) a month's journey to cross it. Its water is 
whiter than milk, and its smell is nicer than musk (a kind of Perfume), and its drinking cups are (as 
numerous) as the (number of) stars of the sky; and whoever drinks from it, will never be thirsty."
Bukhari:6580 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The width of my Lake-Fount is equal to the distance between Aila (a town in 
Sham) and Sana' (the capital of Yemen) and it has as many (numerous) jugs as the number of stars of 
the sky."
Bukhari:6581 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "While I was walking in Paradise (on the night of Mi'raj), I saw a river, on the two 
banks of which there were tents made of hollow pearls. I asked, "What is this, O Gabriel?' He said, 
'That is the Kauthar which Your Lord has given to you.' Behold! Its scent or its mud was sharp 
smelling musk!" (The sub-narrator, Hudba is in doubt as to the correct expression. )
Bukhari:6582 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some of my companions will come to me at my Lake Fount, and after I recognize 
them, they will then be taken away from me, whereupon I will say, 'My companions!' Then it will be 
said, 'You do not know what they innovated (new things) in the religion after you."
Bukhari:6583 Narrated Abu Hazim from Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor (forerunner) at the Lake-Fount, and whoever will pass by 
there, he will drink from it and whoever will drink from it, he will never be thirsty. There will come to 
me some people whom I will recognize, and they will recognize me, but a barrier will be placed 
between me and them."
Bukhari:6584 Abu Hazim added:An-Nu`man bin Abi `Aiyash, on hearing me, said. "Did 
you hear this from Sahl?" I said, "Yes." He said, " I bear witness that I heard Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri 
saying the same, adding that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'I will say: They are of me (i.e. my followers). It will be 
said, 'You do not know what they innovated (new things) in the religion after you left'. I will say, 'Far 
removed, far removed (from mercy), those who changed (their religion) after me."
Bukhari:6585 Abu Huraira 
narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"On the Day of Resurrection a group of companions will come to me, 
but will be driven away from the Lake-Fount, and I will say, 'O Lord (those are) my companions!' It 
will be said, 'You have no knowledge as to what they innovated after you left; they turned apostate as 
renegades (reverted from Islam).
Bukhari:6586 Narrated Ibn Al-Musaiyab:The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some men from my companions will come to my Lake-Fount 
and they will be driven away from it, and I will say, 'O Lord, my companions!' It will be said, 'You 
have no knowledge of what they innovated after you left: they turned apostate as renegades (reverted 
from Islam).
Bukhari:6587 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, a group (of my followers were brought close to me), and 
when I recognized them, a man (an angel) came out from amongst (us) me and them, he said (to 
them), 'Come along.' I asked, 'Where?' He said, 'To the (Hell) Fire, by Allah' I asked, 'what is wrong 
with them' He said, 'They turned apostate as renegades after you left.' Then behold! (Another) group 
(of my followers) were brought close to me, and when I recognized them, a man (an angel) came out 
from (me and them) he said (to them); Come along.' I asked, "Where?' He said, 'To the (Hell) Fire, by 
Allah.' I asked, What is wrong with them?' He said, 'They turned apostate as renegades after you left. 
So I did not see anyone of them escaping except a few who were like camels without a shepherd."
Bukhari:6588 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden from amongst the gardens of 
Paradise, and my pulpit is over my Lake-Fount."
Bukhari:6589 Narrated Jundab:I heard the Prophet, saying, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount. (Al-Kauthar) .
Bukhari:6590 Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the funeral prayers for the martyrs of Uhud, and then went to 
the pulpit and said, "I am a predecessor for you and I am a witness for you: and by Allah, I am looking 
at my Fount just now, and the keys of the treasures of the earth (or the keys of the earth) have been 
given to me: and by Allah, I am not afraid that you will worship others besides Allah after me, but I 
am afraid that you will strive and struggle against each other over these treasures of the world."
Bukhari:6591 Narrated Haritha bin Wahb:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning the Lake-Fount (Al-Kauthar), saying, "(The width of the Lake-Fount) 
is equal to the distance between Medina and Sana' (capital of Yemen)."
Bukhari:6592 Haritha said that he heard the 
Prophet saying that his Lake-Fount would be as large as the distance between Sana' and Medina. Al- 
Mustaurid said to Haritha, "Didn't you hear him talking about the vessels?" He said, "No." Al- 
Mustaurid said, "The vessels are seen in it as (numberless as) the stars."
Bukhari:6593 Narrated Asma 'bint Abu Bakr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be standing at the Lake-Fount so that I will see whom among you will come 
to me; and some people will be taken away from me, and I will say, 'O Lord, (they are) from me and 
from my followers.' Then it will be said, 'Did you notice what they did after you? By Allah, they kept 
on turning on their heels (turned as renegades).' " The sub-narrator, Ibn Abi Mulaika said, "O Allah, 
we seek refuge with You from turning on our heels, or being put to trial in our religion."
Bukhari:6594 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the truthful and truly-inspired, said, "Each one of you collected in the womb of his 
mother for forty days, and then turns into a clot for an equal period (of forty days) and turns into a 
piece of flesh for a similar period (of forty days) and then Allah sends an angel and orders him to 
write four things, i.e., his provision, his age, and whether he will be of the wretched or the blessed (in 
the Hereafter). Then the soul is breathed into him. And by Allah, a person among you (or a man) may 
do deeds of the people of the Fire till there is only a cubit or an arm-breadth distance between him and 
the Fire, but then that writing (which Allah has ordered the angel to write) precedes, and he does the 
deeds of the people of Paradise and enters it; and a man may do the deeds of the people of Paradise till 
there is only a cubit or two between him and Paradise, and then that writing precedes and he does the 
deeds of the people of the Fire and enters it."
Bukhari:6595 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah puts an angel in charge of the uterus and the angel says, 'O Lord, (it is) 
semen! O Lord, (it is now ) a clot! O Lord, (it is now) a piece of flesh.' And then, if Allah wishes to 
complete its creation, the angel asks, 'O Lord, (will it be) a male or a female? A wretched (an evil 
doer) or a blessed (doer of good)? How much will his provisions be? What will his age be?' So all that 
is written while the creature is still in the mother's womb."
Bukhari:6596 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Can the people of Paradise be known (differentiated) from the people 
of the Fire; The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Yes." The man said, "Why do people (try to) do (good) deeds?" The 
Prophet said, "Everyone will do the deeds for which he has been created to do or he will do those 
deeds which will be made easy for him to do." (i.e. everybody will find easy to do such deeds as will 
lead him to his destined place for which he has been created).
Bukhari:6597 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) ; was asked about the offspring of the pagans. He said, "Allah knows what they would 
have done (were they to live).
Bukhari:6598 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the offspring of the pagans. He said, 
     "Allah knows what they would have done (were they to live)."
Bukhari:6599 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No child is born but has 
     the Islamic Faith, but its parents turn it into a Jew or a Christian. 
     It is as you help the animals give birth. Do you find among their 
     offspring a mutilated one before you mutilate them yourself?" The 
     people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you think about those (of 
     them) who die young?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah knows what they would 
     have done (were they to live)."
Bukhari:6600 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No child is born but has 
     the Islamic Faith, but its parents turn it into a Jew or a Christian. 
     It is as you help the animals give birth. Do you find among their 
     offspring a mutilated one before you mutilate them yourself?" The 
     people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you think about those (of 
     them) who die young?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah knows what they would 
     have done (were they to live)."
Bukhari:6601 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No woman should ask for the divorce of her sister (Muslim) so as to take her 
place, but she should marry the man (without compelling him to divorce his other wife), for she will 
have nothing but what Allah has written for her."
Bukhari:6602 Narrated Usama:Once while I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) and Sa`d, Ubai bin Ka`b and Mu`adh were also sitting with him, 
there came to him a messenger from one of his daughters, telling him that her child was on the verge 
of death. The Prophet (ﷺ) told the messenger to tell her, "It is for Allah what He takes, and it is for Allah 
what He gives, and everything has its fixed time (limit). So (she should) be patient and look for 
Allah's reward."
Bukhari:6603 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:That while he was sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) a man from the Ansar came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
We get slave girls from the war captives and we love property; what do you think about coitus 
interruptus?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you do that? It is better for you not to do it, for there is no soul 
which Allah has ordained to come into existence but will be created."
Bukhari:6604 Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) once delivered a speech in front of us wherein he left nothing but mentioned (about) 
everything that would happen till the Hour. Some of us stored that our minds and some forgot it. 
(After that speech) I used to see events taking place (which had been referred to in that speech) but I 
had forgotten them (before their occurrence). Then I would recognize such events as a man recognizes 
another man who has been absent and then sees and recognizes him.
Bukhari:6605 Narrated `Ali:While we were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) who had a stick with which he was scraping the earth, he 
lowered his head and said, "There is none of you but has his place assigned either in the Fire or in 
Paradise." Thereupon a man from the people said, "Shall we not depend upon this, O Allah's 
Apostle?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, but carry on and do your deeds, for everybody finds it easy to do 
such deeds (as will lead him to his place)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then recited the Verse: 'As for him who gives 
(in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah..' (92.5)
Bukhari:6606 Narrated Abu Huraira:We witnessed along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the Khaibar (campaign). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told his 
companions about a man who claimed to be a Muslim, "This man is from the people of the Fire." 
When the battle started, the man fought very bravely and received a great number of wounds and got 
crippled. On that, a man from among the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) came and said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Do you know what the man you described as of the people of the Fire has done? He has 
fought very bravely for Allah's Cause and he has received many wounds." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But he 
is indeed one of the people of the Fire." Some of the Muslims were about to have some doubt about 
that statement. So while the man was in that state, the pain caused by the wounds troubled him so 
much that he put his hand into his quiver and took out an arrow and committed suicide with it. Off 
went some men from among the Muslims to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah has 
made your statement true. So-and-so has committed suicide." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Bilal! Get up 
and announce in public: None will enter Paradise but a believer, and Allah may support this religion 
(Islam) with a wicked man."
Bukhari:6607 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:There was a man who fought most bravely of all the Muslims on behalf of the Muslims in a battle 
(Ghazwa) in the company of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at him and said. "If anyone would like 
to see a man from the people of the Fire, let him look at this (brave man)." On that, a man from the 
People (Muslims) followed him, and he was in that state i.e., fighting fiercely against the pagans till 
he was wounded, and then he hastened to end his life by placing his sword between his breasts (and 
pressed it with great force) till it came out between his shoulders. Then the man (who was watching 
that person) went quickly to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I testify that you are Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
asked him, "Why do you say that?" He said, "You said about so-and-so, 'If anyone would like to see a 
man from the people of the Fire, he should look at him.' He fought most bravely of all of us on behalf 
of the Muslims and I knew that he would not die as a Muslim (Martyr). So when he got wounded, he 
hastened to die and committed suicide." There-upon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man may do the deeds of the 
people of the Fire while in fact he is one of the people of Paradise, and he may do the deeds of the 
people of Paradise while in fact he belongs to the people of Fire, and verily, (the rewards of) the deeds 
are decided by the last actions (deeds)".
Bukhari:6608 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade vowing and said, "In fact, vowing does not prevent anything, but it makes a 
miser to spend his property."
Bukhari:6609 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (that Allah said), "Vowing does not bring to the son of Adam anything I have not 
already written in his fate, but vowing is imposed on him by way of fore ordainment. Through vowing 
I make a miser spend of his wealth."
Bukhari:6610 Narrated Abu Musa:While we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a holy battle, we never went up a hill or reached its peak or 
went down a valley but raised our voices with Takbir. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came close to us and said, "O 
people! Don't exert yourselves, for you do not call a deaf or an absent one, but you call the All- 
Listener, the All-Seer." The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "O `Abdullah bin Qais! Shall I teach you a sentence 
which is from the treasures of Paradise? ( It is): 'La haula wala quwata illa billah. (There is neither 
might nor power except with Allah).
Bukhari:6611 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No Caliph is appointed but has two groups of advisors: One group advises him 
to do good and urges him to adopt it, and the other group advises him to do bad and urges him to 
adopt it; and the protected is the one whom Allah protects."
Bukhari:6612 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I did not see anything so resembling minor sins as what Abu Huraira said from the Prophet, who said, 
"Allah has written for the son of Adam his inevitable share of adultery whether he is aware of it or 
not: The adultery of the eye is the looking (at something which is sinful to look at), and the adultery of 
the tongue is to utter (what it is unlawful to utter), and the innerself wishes and longs for (adultery) 
and the private parts turn that into reality or refrain from submitting to the temptation."
Bukhari:6613 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(regarding the Verse) "And We granted the vision (Ascension to the heavens "Miraj") which We 
showed you (O Muhammad as an actual eye witness) but as a trial for mankind.' (17.60): Allah's 
Apostle actually saw with his own eyes the vision (all the things which were shown to him) on the 
night of his Night Journey to Jerusalem (and then to the heavens). The cursed tree which is mentioned 
in the Qur'an is the tree of Az-Zaqqum.
Bukhari:6614 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Adam and Moses argued with each other. Moses said to Adam. 'O Adam! You are 
our father who disappointed us and turned us out of Paradise.' Then Adam said to him, 'O Moses! 
Allah favored you with His talk (talked to you directly) and He wrote (the Torah) for you with His 
Own Hand. Do you blame me for action which Allah had written in my fate forty years before my 
creation?' So Adam confuted Moses, Adam confuted Moses," the Prophet (ﷺ) added, repeating the 
Statement three times.
Bukhari:6615 Narrated Warrad:(the freed slave of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba) Muawiya wrote to Mughira. 'Write to me what you heard 
the Prophet (ﷺ) saying after his prayer.' So Al-Mughira dictated to me and said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) 
saying after the prayer, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah Alone Who has no partner. O 
Allah! No-one can withhold what You give, and none can give what You withhold, and the fortune of 
a man of means is useless before You (i.e., only good deeds are of value).
Bukhari:6616 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take refuge with Allah from the difficulties of severe calamities, from having an 
evil end and a bad fate and from the malicious joy of your enemies."
Bukhari:6617 Narrated `Abdullah:When taking an oath, the Prophet (ﷺ) very often used to say, "No, by Him Who turns the hearts."
Bukhari:6618 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ibn Saiyad, "I have kept for you a secret." Ibn Saiyad said, "Ad-Dukh." The 
Prophet said, "Keep quiet, for you cannot go beyond your limits (or you cannot exceed what has been 
foreordained for you)." On that, `Umar said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "Allow me to chop off his neck!" The 
Prophet said, "Leave him, for if he is he (i.e., Ad-Dajjal), then you will not be able to overcome him, 
and if he is not, then you gain no good by killing him."
Bukhari:6619 Narrated `Aisha:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the plague. He said, "That was a means of torture which Allah used to 
send upon whom-so-ever He wished, but He made it a source of mercy for the believers, for anyone 
who is residing in a town in which this disease is present, and remains there and does not leave that 
town, but has patience and hopes for Allah's reward, and knows that nothing will befall him except 
what Allah has written for him, then he will get such reward as that of a martyr."
Bukhari:6620 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on the Day of (the battle of) Al-Khandaq, carrying earth with us and saying, "By 
Allah, without Allah we would not have been guided, neither would we have fasted, nor would we 
have prayed. O Allah! Send down Sakina (calmness) upon us and make our feet firm when we meet 
(the enemy). The pagans have rebelled against us, but if they want to put us in affliction (i.e., fight us) 
we refuse (to flee)." (See Hadith No. 430, Vol. 5).
Bukhari:6621 Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr As-Siddiq had never broken his oaths till Allah revealed the expiation for the oaths. Then he 
said, "If I take an oath to do something and later on I find something else better than the first one, then 
I do what is better and make expiation for my oath."
Bukhari:6622 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura! Do not seek to be a ruler, because if you are given 
authority for it, then you will be held responsible for it, but if you are given it without asking for it, 
then you will be helped in it (by Allah): and whenever you take an oath to do something and later you 
find that something else is better than the first, then do the better one and make expiation for your 
oath."
Bukhari:6623 Narrated Abu Musa:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) along with a group of Al-Ash`ariyin in order to request him to provide us with 
mounts. He said, "By Allah, I will not provide you with mounts and I haven't got anything to mount 
you on." Then we stayed there as long as Allah wished us to stay, and then three very nice looking 
she-camels were brought to him and he made us ride them. When we left, we, or some of us, said, "By 
Allah, we will not be blessed, as we came to the Prophet (ﷺ) asking him for mounts, and he swore that he 
would not give us any mounts but then he did give us. So let us go back to the Prophet (ﷺ) and remind 
him (of his oath)." When we returned to him (and reminded him of the fact), he said, "I did not give 
you mounts, but it is Allah Who gave you. By Allah, Allah willing, if I ever take an oath to do 
something and then I find something else than the first, I will make expiation for my oath and do the 
thing which is better (or do something which is better and give the expiation for my oath).
Bukhari:6624 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last in the world, but will be foremost on the Day of 
Resurrection."
Bukhari:6625 Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also said:"By Allah, if anyone of you insists on fulfilling an oath by 
which he may harm his family, he commits a greater sin in Allah's sight than that of dissolving his 
oath and making expiation for it."
Bukhari:6626 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone who takes an oath through which his family may be harmed, and insists 
on keeping it, he surely commits a sin greater (than that of dissolving his oath). He should rather 
compensate for that oath by making expiation."
Bukhari:6627 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent an army detachment and made Usama bin Zaid its commander. Some people 
criticized (spoke badly of) Usama's leadership. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up saying, "If you people are 
criticizing Usama's leadership, you have already criticized the leadership of his father before. But Waaimullah 
(i.e., By Allah), he (i.e. Zaid) deserved the leadership, and he was one of the most beloved 
persons to me; and now this (his son Usama) is one of the dearest persons to me after him." (See 
Hadith No. 765, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:6628 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The oath of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be: "No, by Him who turns the hearts."
Bukhari:6629 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Caesar is ruined, there will be no Caesar after him; and if Khosrau is ruined, 
there will be no Khosrau, after him; and, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, surely you will spend 
their treasures in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:6630 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau after him; and if Caesar is ruined, 
there will be no Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, surely you will spend 
their treasures in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:6631 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O followers of Muhammad! By Allah, if you knew what I know, you would weep 
much and laugh little."
Bukhari:6632 Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was holding the hand of `Umar bin Al-Khattab. `Umar said to Him, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You are dearer to me than everything except my own self." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"No, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, (you will not have complete faith) till I am dearer to you than 
your own self." Then `Umar said to him, "However, now, by Allah, you are dearer to me than my own 
self." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Now, O `Umar, (now you are a believer).
Bukhari:6633 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men had a dispute in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). One of them said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Judge between us according to Allah's Laws." The other who was wiser, said, "Yes, O Allah's 
Apostle! Judge between us according to Allah's Laws and allow me to speak. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Speak." He said, "My son was a laborer serving this (person) and he committed illegal sexual 
intercourse with his wife, The people said that my son is to be stoned to death, but I ransomed him 
with one-hundred sheep and a slave girl. Then I asked the learned people, who informed me that my 
son should receive one hundred lashes and will be exiled for one year, and stoning will be the lot for 
the man's wife." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Indeed, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I will judge 
between you according to Allah's Laws: As for your sheep and slave girl, they are to be returned to 
you." Then he scourged his son one hundred lashes and exiled him for one year. Then Unais Al- 
Aslami was ordered to go to the wife of the second man, and if she confessed (the crime), then stone 
her to death. She did confess, so he stoned her to death.
Bukhari:6634 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men had a dispute in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). One of them said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Judge between us according to Allah's Laws." The other who was wiser, said, "Yes, O Allah's 
Apostle! Judge between us according to Allah's Laws and allow me to speak. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Speak." He said, "My son was a laborer serving this (person) and he committed illegal sexual 
intercourse with his wife, The people said that my son is to be stoned to death, but I ransomed him 
with one-hundred sheep and a slave girl. Then I asked the learned people, who informed me that my 
son should receive one hundred lashes and will be exiled for one year, and stoning will be the lot for 
the man's wife." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Indeed, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I will judge 
between you according to Allah's Laws: As for your sheep and slave girl, they are to be returned to 
you." Then he scourged his son one hundred lashes and exiled him for one year. Then Unais Al- 
Aslami was ordered to go to the wife of the second man, and if she confessed (the crime), then stone 
her to death. She did confess, so he stoned her to death.
Bukhari:6635 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you think if the tribes of Aslam, Ghifar, Muzaina and Juhaina are better than 
the tribes of Tamim, 'Amir bin Sa'sa'a, Ghatfan and Asad, they (the second group) are despairing and 
losing?" They (the Prophet's companions) said, "Yes, (they are)." He said, "By Him in Whose Hand 
my soul is, they (the first group) are better than them (the second group).
Bukhari:6636 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) employed an employee (to collect Zakat). The employee returned after completing his 
job and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This (amount of Zakat) is for you, and this (other amount) was given 
to me as a present." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Why didn't you stay at your father's or mother's house 
and see if you would be given presents or not?" Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up in the evening after the 
prayer, and having testified that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah and praised and 
glorified Allah as He deserved, he said, "Now then ! What about an employee whom we employ and 
then he comes and says, 'This amount (of Zakat) is for you, and this (amount) was given to me as a 
present'? Why didn't he stay at the house of his father and mother to see if he would be given presents 
or not? By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, none of you will steal anything of it (i.e. Zakat) 
but will bring it by carrying it over his neck on the Day of Resurrection. If it has been a camel, he will 
bring it (over his neck) while it will be grunting, and if it has been a cow, he will bring it (over his 
neck), while it will be mooing; and if it has been a sheep, he will bring it (over his neck) while it will 
be bleeding." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I have preached you (Allah's Message)." Abu Humaid said, "Then 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised his hands so high that we saw the whiteness of his armpits."
Bukhari:6637 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet) said, "By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, if you know that 
which I know, you would weep much and laugh little."
Bukhari:6638 Narrated Abu Dhar:I reached him (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) while in the shade of the Ka`ba; he was saying, "They are the losers, by 
the Lord of the Ka`ba! They are the losers, by the Lord of the Ka`ba!" I said (to myself ), "What is 
wrong with me? Is anything improper detected in me? What is wrong with me? Then I sat beside him 
and he kept on saying his statement. I could not remain quiet, and Allah knows in what sorrowful state 
I was at that time. So I said, ' Who are they (the losers)? Let My father and mother be sacrificed for 
you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "They are the wealthy people, except the one who does like this and 
like this and like this (i.e., spends of his wealth in Allah's Cause).
Bukhari:6639 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(The Prophet) Solomon once said, 'Tonight I will sleep with ninety women, 
each of whom will bring forth a (would-be) cavalier who will fight in Allah's Cause." On this, his 
companion said to him, "Say: Allah willing!" But he did not say Allah willing. Solomon then slept 
with all the women, but none of them became pregnant but one woman who later delivered a halfman. 
By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, if he (Solomon) had said, 'Allah willing' (all his 
wives would have brought forth boys) and they would have fought in Allah's Cause as cavaliers. "
Bukhari:6640 Narrated Al-Bara 'bin `Azib:A piece of silken cloth was given to the Prophet (ﷺ) as a present and the people handed it over amongst 
themselves and were astonished at its beauty and softness. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Are you astonished 
at it?" They said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, the 
handkerchiefs of Sa`d in Paradise are better than it."
Bukhari:6641 Narrated `Aisha:Hind bint `Utba bin Rabi`a said, "O Allah 's Apostle! (Before I embraced Islam), there was no family 
on the surface of the earth, I wish to have degraded more than I did your family. But today there is no 
family whom I wish to have honored more than I did yours." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I thought 
similarly, by Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is!" Hind said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (My 
husband) Abu Sufyan is a miser. Is it sinful of me to feed my children from his property?" The 
Prophet said, "No, unless you take it for your needs what is just and reasonable."
Bukhari:6642 Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting, reclining his back against a Yemenite leather tent he said to his 
companions, "Will you be pleased to be one-fourth of the people of Paradise?" They said, 'Yes.' He 
said "Won't you be pleased to be one-third of the people of Paradise" They said, "Yes." He said, "By 
Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, I hope that you will be one-half of the people of Paradise."
Bukhari:6643 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A man heard another man reciting: Surat-ul-Ikhlas (The Unity) 'Say: He is Allah, the One (112) and 
he was repeating it. The next morning he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and mentioned the whole story to 
him as if he regarded the recitation of that Sura as insufficient On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him 
in Whose Hand my soul is! That (Sura No. 112) equals one-third of the Qur'an."
Bukhari:6644 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Perform the bowing and the prostration properly (with peace of mind), 
for, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I see you from behind my back when you bow and when you 
prostrate."
Bukhari:6645 Narrated Anas bin Malik:An Ansari woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the company of her children, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, 
"By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, you are the most beloved people to me!" And he repeated the 
statement thrice.
Bukhari:6646 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) met `Umar bin Al-Khattab while the latter was going with a group of camel-riders, 
and he was swearing by his father. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Lo! Allah forbids you to swear by your fathers, 
so whoever has to take an oath, he should swear by Allah or keep quiet."
Bukhari:6647 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard `Umar saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, 'Allah forbids you to swear by your fathers." 
`Umar said, "By Allah! Since I heard that from the Prophet (ﷺ) , I have not taken such an oath, neither 
intentionally, nor by reporting the oath of someone else."
Bukhari:6648 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers."
Bukhari:6649 Narrated Zahdam:There was a relation of love and brotherhood between this tribe of Jarm and Al-Ash`ariyin. Once we 
were with Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari, and then a meal containing chicken was brought to Abu Musa, and 
there was present, a man from the tribe of Taimillah who was of red complexion as if he were from 
non-Arab freed slaves. Abu Musa invited him to the meal. He said, "I have seen chickens eating dirty 
things, so I deemed it filthy and took an oath that I would never eat chicken." On that, Abu Musa said, 
"Get up, I will narrate to you about that. Once a group of the Ash`ariyin and I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and asked him to provide us with mounts; he said, 'By Allah, I will never give you any mounts nor do 
I have anything to mount you on.' Then a few camels of war booty were brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , 
and he asked about us, saying, 'Where are the Ash-'ariyin?' He then ordered five nice camels to be 
given to us, and when we had departed, we said, 'What have we done? Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had taken the 
oath not to give us any mounts, and that he had nothing to mount us on, and later he gave us that we 
might ride? Did we take advantage of the fact that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forgotten his oath? By Allah, 
we will never succeed.' So we went back to him and said to him, 'We came to you to give us mounts, 
and you took an oath that you would not give us any mounts and that you had nothing to mount us on.' 
On that he said, 'I did not provide you with mounts, but Allah did. By Allah, if I take an oath to do 
something, and then find something else better than it, I do that which is better and make expiation for 
the dissolution of the oath.' "
Bukhari:6650 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears saying in his oath. 'By Al-Lat and Al-`Uzza,' should say, 'None 
has the right to be worshipped but Allah; and whoever says to his friend, 'Come, let me gamble with 
you,' should give something in charity."
Bukhari:6651 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a gold ring made for himself, and he used to wear it with the stone towards the 
inner part of his hand. Consequently, the people had similar rings made for themselves. Afterwards 
the Prophet; sat on the pulpit and took it off, saying, "I used to wear this ring and keep its stone 
towards the palm of my hand." He then threw it away and said, "By Allah, I will never wear it." 
Therefore all the people threw away their rings as well.
Bukhari:6652 Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam, is, as he says; and whoever 
commits suicide with something, will be punished with the same thing in the (Hell) Fire; and cursing a 
believer is like murdering him; and whoever accuses a believer of disbelief, then it is as if he had 
killed him."
Bukhari:6653 Narrated Abu Hurairah that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah decided to test three people from Bani Isra'il. So, He sent an angel who came first to the leper and said, '(I am a traveller) who has run short of all means of living, and I have nobody to help me except Allah, and then with your help.'" Abu Hurairah then mentioned the complete narration.
Bukhari:6654 Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to help others to fulfill the oaths.
Bukhari:6655 Narrated Usama:Once a daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a message to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while Usama, Sa`d, and my 
father or Ubai were (sitting there) with him. She said, (in the message); My child is going to die; 
please come to us." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned the messenger and told him to convey his greetings to 
her, and say, "Whatever Allah takes, is for Him and whatever He gives is for Him, and everything 
with Him has a limited fixed term (in this world): so she should be patient and hope for Allah's 
reward." Then she again sent for him swearing that he should come; so The Prophet (ﷺ) got up, and so did 
we. When he sat there (at the house of his daughter), the child was brought to him, and he took him 
into his lap while the child's breath was disturbed in his chest. The eyes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started 
shedding tears. Sa`d said, "What is this, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is the mercy 
which Allah has lodged in the hearts of whoever He wants of His slaves, and verily Allah is merciful 
only to those of His slaves who are merciful (to others).'
Bukhari:6656 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Any Muslim who has lost three of his children will not be touched by the Fire 
except that which will render Allah's oath fulfilled."
Bukhari:6657 Narrated Haritha bin Wahb:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Shall I tell you of the people of Paradise? They comprise every poor 
humble person, and if he swears by Allah to do something, Allah will fulfill it; while the people of the 
fire comprise every violent, cruel arrogant person."
Bukhari:6658 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, "Who are the best people?" He replied: The people of my generation, and 
then those who will follow (come after) them, and then those who will come after the later; after that 
there will come some people whose witness will precede their oaths and their oaths will go ahead of 
their witness." Ibrahim (a sub-narrator) said, "When we were young, our elder friends used to prohibit 
us from taking oaths by saying, 'I bear witness swearing by Allah, or by Allah's Covenant."'
Bukhari:6659 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears falsely in order to grab the property of a Muslim (or of his 
brother), Allah will be angry with him when he meets Him." Allah then revealed in confirmation of 
the above statement:--'Verily those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and 
their own oaths.' (3.77) Al-Ash'ath said, "This Verse was revealed regarding me and a companion of 
mine when we had a dispute about a well."
Bukhari:6660 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears falsely in order to grab the property of a Muslim (or of his 
brother), Allah will be angry with him when he meets Him." Allah then revealed in confirmation of 
the above statement:--'Verily those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and 
their own oaths.' (3.77) Al-Ash'ath said, "This Verse was revealed regarding me and a companion of 
mine when we had a dispute about a well."
Bukhari:6661 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hell Fire will keep on saying: 'Are there anymore (people to come)?' Till the 
Lord of Power and Honor will put His Foot over it and then it will say, 'Qat! Qat! (sufficient! 
sufficient!) by Your Power and Honor. And its various sides will come close to each other (i.e., it will 
contract). "
Bukhari:6662 Narrated Az-Zuhri:I heard `Urwa bin Az-Zubair, Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab, 'Alqama bin Waqqas and 'Ubaidullah bin 
`Abdullah narrating from `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, the story about the liars who said what they 
said about her and how Allah revealed her innocence afterwards. Each one of the above four narrators 
narrated to me a portion of her narration. (It was said in it), "The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up, saying, 'Is there 
anyone who can relieve me from `Abdullah bin Ubai?' On that, Usaid bin Hudair got up and said to 
Sa`d bin 'Ubada, La`Amrullahi (By the Eternity of Allah), we will kill him!' "
Bukhari:6663 Narrated `Aisha:regarding: 'Allah will not call you to account for that which is unintentional in your oaths...' (2.225) 
This Verse was revealed concerning such oath formulas as: 'No, by Allah!' and 'Yes, by Allah!' 
something against his oath due to forgetfulness should he make expiation?). And the Statement of 
Allah: 'And there is no blame on you if you make a mistake therein.' (33.5) And Allah said:-- '(Moses 
said to Khadir): Call me not to account for what I forgot.' (18.73)
Bukhari:6664 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah forgives my followers those (evil deeds) their souls may whisper or suggest 
to them as long as they do not act (on it) or speak."
Bukhari:6665 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-As:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering a sermon on the Day of Nahr (i.e., 10th Dhul-Hijja-Day of 
slaughtering the sacrifice), a man got up saying, "I thought, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), such-and-such a thing 
was to be done before such-and-such a thing." Another man got up, saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! As 
regards these three (acts of Hajj), thought so-and-so." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do, and there is no harm," 
concerning all those matters on that day. And so, on that day, whatever question he was asked, he 
said, "Do it, do it, and there is no harm therein."
Bukhari:6666 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man said to the Prophet (while he was delivering a sermon on the Day of Nahr), "I have performed 
the Tawaf round the Ka`ba before the Rami (throwing pebbles) at the Jamra." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"There is no harm (therein)." Another man said, "I had my head shaved before slaughtering (the 
sacrifice)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no harm." A third said, "I have slaughtered (the sacrifice) 
before the Rami (throwing pebbles) at the Jamra." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no harm."
Bukhari:6667 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man entered the mosque and started praying while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting somewhere in the 
mosque. Then (after finishing the prayer) the man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and greeted him. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said to him, "Go back and pray, for you have not prayed. The man went back, and having prayed, he 
came and greeted the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) after returning his greetings said, "Go back and pray, for 
you did not pray." On the third time the man said, "(O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!) teach me (how to pray)." The 
Prophet said, "When you get up for the prayer, perform the ablution properly and then face the Qibla 
and say Takbir (Allahu Akbar), and then recite of what you know of the Qur'an, and then bow, and 
remain in this state till you feel at rest in bowing, and then raise your head and stand straight; and then 
prostrate till you feel at rest in prostration, and then sit up till you feel at rest while sitting; and then 
prostrate again till you feel at rest in prostration; and then get up and stand straight, and do all this in 
all your prayers."
Bukhari:6668 Narrated `Aisha:When the pagans were defeated during the (first stage) of the battle of Uhud, Satan shouted, "O 
Allah's slaves! Beware of what is behind you!" So the front files of the Muslims attacked their own 
back files. Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman looked and on seeing his father he shouted: "My father! My 
father!" By Allah! The people did not stop till they killed his father. Hudhaifa then said, "May Allah 
forgive you." `Urwa (the sub-narrator) added, "Hudhaifa continued asking Allah forgiveness for the 
killers of his father till he met Allah (till he died).
Bukhari:6669 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody eats something forgetfully while he is fasting, then he should 
complete his fast, for Allah has made him eat and drink."
Bukhari:6670 Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in prayer, and after finishing the first two rak`at, got up (instead of sitting 
for at-Tahiyyat) and then carried on with the prayer. When he had finished his prayer, the people were 
waiting for him to say Taslim, but before saying Tasiim, he said Takbir and prostrated; then he raised 
his head, and saying Takbir, he prostrated (SAHU) and then raised his head and finished his prayer 
with Taslim.
Bukhari:6671 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:that Allah's Prophet led them in the Zuhr prayer and he offered either more or less rak`at, and it was 
said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ! Has the prayer been reduced, or have you forgotten?" He asked, 
"What is that?" They said, "You have prayed so many rak`at." So he performed with them two more 
prostrations and said, "These two prostrations are to be performed by the person who does not know 
whether he has prayed more or less (rak`at) in which case he should seek to follow what is right. And 
then complete the rest (of the prayer) and perform two extra prostrations."
Bukhari:6672 Narrated Ubai bin Ka'b:that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "(Moses) said, 'Call me not to 
     account for what I forget and be not hard upon me for my affair (with 
     you)' (18.73) the first excuse of Moses was his forgetfulness."
Bukhari:6673 Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib that once he had a guest, so he told his 
     family (on the Day of Id-ul-Adha) that they should slaughter the 
     animal for sacrifice before he returned from the ('Id) prayer in order
     that their guest could take his meal. So his family slaughtered (the 
     animal ) before the prayer. Then they mentioned that event to the 
     Prophet who ordered Al-Bara to slaughter another sacrifice. Al-Bara' 
     said to the Prophet (ﷺ) , "I have a young milch she-goat which is better 
     than two sheep for slaughtering." (The sub-narrator, Ibn 'Aun used to 
     say, "I don't know whether the permission (to slaughter a she-goat as 
     a sacrifice) was especially given to Al-Bara' or if it was in general 
     for all the Muslims.") (See Hadith No. 99, Vol. 2.)
Bukhari:6674 Narrated Jundub:I witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the `Id prayer (and after finishing it) he delivered a sermon and said, 
"Whoever has slaughtered his sacrifice (before the prayer) should make up for it (i.e. slaughter another 
animal) and whoever has not slaughtered his sacrifice yet, should slaughter it by mentioning Allah's 
Name over it."
Bukhari:6675 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The biggest sins are: To join others in worship with Allah; to be undutiful to one's 
parents; to kill somebody unlawfully; and to take an oath Al-Ghamus.
Bukhari:6676 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody is ordered (by the ruler or the judge) to take an oath, and he takes a 
false oath in order to grab the property of a Muslim, then he will incur Allah's Wrath when he will 
meet Him." And Allah revealed in its confirmation: 'Verily! Those who purchase a small gain at the 
cost of Allah's covenants and their own oaths.' (3.77) (The sub-narrator added:) Al-Ash'ath bin Qais 
entered, saying, "What did Abu `Abdur-Rahman narrate to you?" They said, "So-and-so," Al-Ash'ath 
said, "This verse was revealed in my connection. I had a well on the land of my cousin (and we had a 
dispute about it). I reported him to Allah 's Apostle who said (to me). "You should give evidence (i.e. 
witness) otherwise the oath of your opponent will render your claim invalid." I said, "Then he (my 
opponent) will take the oath, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever is ordered (by the 
ruler or the judge) to give an oath, and he takes a false oath in order to grab the property of a Muslim, 
then he will incur Allah's Wrath when he meets Him on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:6677 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody is ordered (by the ruler or the judge) to take an oath, and he takes a 
false oath in order to grab the property of a Muslim, then he will incur Allah's Wrath when he will 
meet Him." And Allah revealed in its confirmation: 'Verily! Those who purchase a small gain at the 
cost of Allah's covenants and their own oaths.' (3.77) (The sub-narrator added:) Al-Ash'ath bin Qais 
entered, saying, "What did Abu `Abdur-Rahman narrate to you?" They said, "So-and-so," Al-Ash'ath 
said, "This verse was revealed in my connection. I had a well on the land of my cousin (and we had a 
dispute about it). I reported him to Allah 's Apostle who said (to me). "You should give evidence (i.e. 
witness) otherwise the oath of your opponent will render your claim invalid." I said, "Then he (my 
opponent) will take the oath, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever is ordered (by the 
ruler or the judge) to give an oath, and he takes a false oath in order to grab the property of a Muslim, 
then he will incur Allah's Wrath when he meets Him on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:6678 Narrated Abu Musa:My companions sent me to the Prophet (ﷺ) to ask him for some mounts. He said, "By Allah! I will not 
mount you on anything!" When I met him, he was in an angry mood, but when I met him (again), he 
said, "Tell your companions that Allah or Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) will provide you with mounts."
Bukhari:6679 Narrated Az-Zuhri:I heard `Urwa bin Az-Zubair, Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab, 'Alqama bin Waqqas and 'Ubaidullah bin 
`Abdullah bin `Uqba relating from `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) the narration of the people (i.e. the 
liars) who spread the slander against her and they said what they said, and how Allah revealed her 
innocence. Each of them related to me a portion of that narration. (They said that `Aisha said), ''Then 
Allah revealed the ten Verses starting with:--'Verily! Those who spread the slander..' (24.11-21) 
All these verses were in proof of my innocence. Abu Bakr As-Siddiq who used to provide for Mistah 
some financial aid because of his relation to him, said, "By Allah, I will never give anything (in 
charity) to Mistah, after what he has said about `Aisha" Then Allah revealed:-- 'And let not those 
among you who are good and are wealthy swear not to give (any sort of help) to their kins men....' 
(24.22) On that, Abu Bakr said, "Yes, by Allah, I like that Allah should forgive me." and then 
resumed giving Mistah the aid he used to give him and said, "By Allah! I will never withhold it from 
him."
Bukhari:6680 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:I went along with some men from the Ash-ariyin to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and it happened that I met him 
while he was in an angry mood. We asked him to provide us with mounts, but he swore that he would 
not give us any. Later on he said, "By Allah, Allah willing, if ever I take an oath (to do something) 
and later on I find something else better than the first, then I do the better one and give expiation for 
the dissolution of my oath."
Bukhari:6681 Narrated Al-Musaiyab:When the death of Abu Talib approached, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to him and said, "Say: La ilaha 
illallah, a word with which I will be able to defend you before Allah."
Bukhari:6682 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(The following are) two words (sentences or utterances) that are very easy for the tongue to say, and very heavy in the balance (of reward), and most beloved to the Gracious Almighty (And they are): Subhan Allahi wa bi-hamdihi; Subhan Allahi-l-'Adhim,"
Bukhari:6683 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said a sentence and I said another. He said, "Whoever dies while he is setting up rivals 
along with Allah (i.e. worshipping others along with Allah) shall be admitted into the (Hell) Fire." 
And I said the other: "Whoever dies while he is not setting up rivals along with Allah (i.e. 
worshipping none except Allah) shall be admitted into Paradise."
Bukhari:6684 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took an oath for abstention from his wives (for one month), and during those days he 
had a sprain in his foot. He stayed in a Mashrubah (an upper room) for twenty-nine nights and then 
came down. Then the people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You took an oath for abstention (from your 
wives) for one month." On that he said, "A (lunar) month can be of twenty-nine days."
Bukhari:6685 Narrated Abu Hazim:Sahl bin Sa`d said, "Abu Usaid, the companion of the Prophet, got married, so he invited the Prophet (ﷺ) 
to his wedding party, and the bride herself served them. Sahl said to the People, 'Do you know what 
drink she served him with? She infused some dates in a pot at night and the next morning she served 
him with the infusion."
Bukhari:6686 Narrated Sauda:(the wife of the Prophet) One of our sheep died and we tanned its skin and kept on infusing dates in it 
till it was a worn out water skin.
Bukhari:6687 Narrated `Aisha:The family of (the Prophet) Muhammad never ate wheat-bread with meat for three consecutive days 
to their fill, till he met Allah.
Bukhari:6688 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Abu Talha said to Um Sulaim, "I heard the voice of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rather weak, and I knew that it 
was because of hunger. Have you anything (to present to the Prophet)?" She said, "Yes." Then she 
took out a few loaves of barley bread and took a veil of hers and wrapped the bread with a part of it 
and sent me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I went and found Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sitting in the mosque with some 
people. I stood up before him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Has Abu Talha sent you?" I said, ' Yes. 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to those who were with him. "Get up and proceed." I went ahead of them 
(as their forerunner) and came to Abu Talha and informed him about it. Abu Talha said, "O Um 
Sulaim! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has come and we have no food to feed them." Um Sulaim said, "Allah and 
His Apostle know best." So Abu Talha went out (to receive them) till he met Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came in company with Abu Talha and they entered the house. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O 
Um Sulaim! Bring whatever you have." So she brought that (barley) bread and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
ordered that bread to be broken into small pieces, and then Um Sulaim poured over it some butter 
from a leather butter container, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said what Allah wanted him to say, (i.e. 
blessing the food). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "Admit ten men." Abu Talha admitted them and they ate 
to their fill and went out. He again said, "Admit ten men." He admitted them, and in this way all the 
people ate to their fill, and they were seventy or eighty men."
Bukhari:6689 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The (reward of) deeds, depend upon the intentions and every person 
will get the reward according to what he has intended. So whoever emigrated for the sake of Allah and 
His Apostle, then his emigration will be considered to be for Allah and His Apostle, and whoever 
emigrated for the sake of worldly gain or for a woman to marry, then his emigration will be 
considered to be for what he emigrated for."
Bukhari:6690 Narrated Ka`b bin Malik:In the last part of his narration about the three who remained behind (from the battle of Tabuk). (I 
said) "As a proof of my true repentance (for not joining the Holy battle of Tabuk), I shall give up all 
my property for the sake of Allah and His Apostle (as an expiation for that sin)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to 
me), "Keep some of your wealth, for that is better for you."
Bukhari:6691 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stay (for a period) in the house of Zainab bint Jahsh (one of the wives of the 
Prophet ) and he used to drink honey in her house. Hafsa and I decided that when the Prophet (ﷺ) entered 
upon either of us, she would say, "I smell in you the bad smell of Maghafir (a bad smelling raisin). 
Have you eaten Maghafir?" When he entered upon one of us, she said that to him. He replied (to her), 
"No, but I have drunk honey in the house of Zainab bint Jahsh, and I will never drink it again." Then 
the following verse was revealed: 'O Prophet ! Why do you ban (for you) that which Allah has made 
lawful for you?. ..(up to) If you two (wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) turn in repentance to Allah.' (66.1-4) The 
two were `Aisha and Hafsa And also the Statement of Allah: 'And (Remember) when the Prophet (ﷺ) 
disclosed a matter in confidence to one of his wives!' (66.3) i.e., his saying, "But I have drunk 
honey." Hisham said: It also meant his saying, "I will not drink anymore, and I have taken an oath, so 
do not inform anybody of that."
Bukhari:6692 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith:that he heard Ibn `Umar saying, "Weren't people forbidden to make vows?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'A vow 
neither hastens nor delays anything, but by the making of vows, some of the wealth of a miser is taken 
out."
Bukhari:6693 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the making of vows and said, "It (a vow) does not prevent anything (that has to 
take place), but the property of a miser is spent (taken out) with it."
Bukhari:6694 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'The vow, does not bring about for the son of Adam anything I have not 
decreed for him, but his vow may coincide with what has been decided for him, and by this way I 
cause a miser to spend of his wealth. So he gives Me (spends in charity) for the fulfillment of what has 
been decreed for him what he would not give Me before but for his vow."
Bukhari:6695 Narrated Zahdam bin Mudarrab:`Imran bin Hussain said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The best of you (people) are my generation, and the 
second best will be those who will follow them, and then those who will follow the second 
generation." `Imran added, "I do not remember whether he mentioned two or three (generations) after 
his generation. He added, 'Then will come some people who will make vows but will not fulfill them; 
and they will be dishonest and will not be trustworthy, and they will give their witness without being 
asked to give their witness, and fatness will appear among them.' "
Bukhari:6696 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever vows that he will be obedient to Allah, should remain obedient to Him; 
and whoever made a vow that he will disobey Allah, should not disobey Him."
Bukhari:6697 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar said "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I vowed to perform I`tikaf for one night in Al-Masjid-al-Haram, 
during the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance (before embracing Islam). "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fulfill your 
vow." Ibn `Umar said to the lady, "Pray on her behalf." Ibn `Abbas said the same.
Bukhari:6698 Narrated Sa`id bin 'Ubada Al-Ansari:that he consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) about a vow that had been made by his mother who died without 
fulfilling it. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave his verdict that he should fulfill it on her behalf. The verdict became 
Sunna (i.e. the Prophet's tradition).
Bukhari:6699 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said to him, "My sister vowed to perform the Hajj, but she died 
(before fulfilling it)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Would you not have paid her debts if she had any?" The man 
said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "So pay Allah's Rights, as He is more entitled to receive His rights."
Bukhari:6700 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever vowed to be obedient to Allah, must be obedient to Him; and whoever 
vowed to be disobedient to Allah, should not be disobedient to Him."
Bukhari:6701 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah is not in need of this man) torturing himself," when he saw the man walking 
between his two sons (who were supporting him).
Bukhari:6702 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man performing Tawaf around the Ka`ba, tied with a rope or something else (while 
another person was holding him). The Prophet (ﷺ) cut that rope off.
Bukhari:6703 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While performing the Tawaf around the Ka`ba, the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a person leading another person 
by a hair-rope nose-ring in his nose. The Prophet (ﷺ) cut the hair-rope nose-ring off with his hand and 
ordered the man to lead him by the hand.
Bukhari:6704 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering a sermon, he saw a man standing, so he asked about that man. They 
(the people) said, "It is Abu Israil who has vowed that he will stand and never sit down, and he will 
never come in the shade, nor speak to anybody, and will fast.'' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Order him to speak 
and let him come in the shade, and make him sit down, but let him complete his fast."
Bukhari:6705 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:that he was asked about a man who had vowed that he would fast all the days of his life then the day 
of `Id al Adha or `Id-al-Fitr came. `Abdullah bin `Umar said: You have indeed a good example in 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He did not fast on the day of `Id al Adha or the day of `Id-al-Fitr, and we do not 
intend fasting on these two days.
Bukhari:6706 Narrated Ziyad bin Jubair:I was with Ibn `Umar when a man asked him, "I have vowed to fast every Tuesday or Wednesday 
throughout my life and if the day of my fasting coincided with the day of Nahr (the first day of `Id-al- 
Adha), (What shall I do?)" Ibn `Umar said, "Allah has ordered the vows to be fulfilled, and we are 
forbidden to fast on the day of Nahr." The man repeated his question and Ibn `Umar repeated his 
former answer, adding nothing more.
Bukhari:6707 Narrated Abu Huraira:We went out in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of (the battle of) Khaibar, and we did not 
get any gold or silver as war booty, but we got property in the form of things and clothes. Then a man 
called Rifa`a bin Zaid, from the tribe of Bani Ad-Dubaib, presented a slave named Mid`am to Allah's 
Apostle. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) headed towards the valley of Al-Qura, and when he was in the valley of Al- 
Qura an arrow was thrown by an unidentified person, struck and killed Mid`am who was making a 
she-camel of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kneel down. The people said, "Congratulations to him (the slave) for 
gaining Paradise." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No! By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, for the sheet which 
he stole from the war booty before its distribution on the day of Khaibar, is now burning over him." 
When the people heard that, a man brought one or two Shiraks (leather straps of shoes) to the Prophet. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Shirak of fire, or two Shiraks of fire."
Bukhari:6708 Narrated Ka`b bin 'Ujra:I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said to me, "Come near." So I went near to him and he said, "Are your 
lice troubling you?" I replied, "Yes." He said, "(Shave your head and) make expiation in the form of 
fasting, Sadaqa (giving in charity), or offering a sacrifice." (The sub-narrator) Aiyub said, "Fasting 
should be for three days, and the Nusuk (sacrifice) is to be a sheep, and the Sadaqa is to be given to 
six poor persons."
Bukhari:6709 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I am ruined!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is the matter with you?" 
He said, "I had sexual relation with my wife (while I was fasting) in Ramadan." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Have you got enough to manumit a slave?" He said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can you fast for two 
successive months?" The man said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can you feed sixty poor persons?" The 
man said, "No." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Sit down," and he sat down. Afterwards an 'Irq, i.e., a 
big basket containing dates was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Take this and 
give it in charity." The man said, "To poorer people than we?" On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) smiled till his 
premolar teeth became visible, and then told him, "Feed your family with it." (See Hadith No. 157, 
Vol 3)
Bukhari:6710 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I am ruined!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "What is the 
matter?" He said, "I have done a sexual relation with my wife (while fasting) in Ramadan." The 
Prophet said to him?" "Can you afford to manumit a slave?" He said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can 
you fast for two successive months?" He said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can you feed sixty poor 
persons?" He said, "No." Then an Ansari man came with an Irq (a big basket full of dates). The 
Prophet said (to the man), "Take this (basket) and give it in charity." That man said, "To poorer people 
than we, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? By Him Who has sent you with the Truth! There is no house in between 
the two mountains (of the city of Medina) poorer than we." So the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Go and feed 
it to your family."
Bukhari:6711 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophets and said, "I am ruined!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is the matter with you?" 
He said, "I have done a sexual relation with my wife (while fasting) in Ramadan" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to 
him, "Can you afford to manumit a slave?" He said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can you fast for two 
successive months?" He said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can you feed sixty poor persons?" He said, "I 
have nothing." Later on an Irq (big basket) containing dates was given to the Prophet, and the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said (to him), "Take this basket and give it in charity." The man said, "To poorer people than we? 
Indeed, there is nobody between its (i.e., Medina's) two mountains who is poorer than we." The 
Prophet then said, "Take it and feed your family with it."
Bukhari:6712 Narrated Al-Ju'aid bin `Abdur-Rahman:As-Sa'ib bin Yazid said, "The Sa' at the time of the Prophet (ﷺ) was equal to one Mudd plus one-third of a 
Mudd of your time, and then it was increased in the time of Caliph `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz."
Bukhari:6713 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to give the Zakat of Ramadan (Zakat-al-Fitr) according to the Mudd of the Prophet, 
the first Mudd, and he also used to give things for expiation for oaths according to the Mudd of the 
Prophet. Abu Qutaiba said, "Malik said to us, 'Our Mudd (i.e., of Medina) is better than yours and we 
do not see any superiority except in the Mudd of the Prophet!' Malik further said, to me, 'If a ruler 
came to you and fixed a Mudd smaller than the one of the Prophet, by what Mudd would you measure 
what you give (for expiation or Zakat-al-Fitr?' I replied, 'We would give it according to the Mudd of 
the Prophet' On that, Malik said, 'Then, don't you see that we have to revert to the Mudd of the 
Prophet ultimately?'"
Bukhari:6714 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessings on their measures, Sa' and Mudd (i.e., of the 
people of Medina).
Bukhari:6715 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody manumits a Muslim slave, Allah will save from the Fire every part of 
his body for freeing the corresponding parts of the slave's body, even his private parts will be saved 
from the Fire) because of freeing the slave's private parts."
Bukhari:6716 Narrated `Amr:Jabir said: An Ansari man made his slave a Mudabbar and he had no other property than him. When 
the Prophet (ﷺ) heard of that, he said (to his companions), "Who wants to buy him (i.e., the slave) for 
me?" Nu'aim bin An-Nahham bought him for eight hundred Dirhams. I heard Jabir saying, "That was 
a coptic slave who died in the same year."
Bukhari:6717 Narrated `Aisha:that she intended to buy Barira (a slave girl) and her masters stipulated that they would have her 
Wala'. When `Aisha mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) ; he said, "Buy her, for the Wala' is for the one who 
manumits."
Bukhari:6718 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with a group of people from (the tribe of) Al-Ash`ari, asking for 
mounts. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, I will not give you anything to ride, and I have nothing to mount 
you on." We stayed there as long as Allah wished, and after that, some camels were brought to the 
Prophet and he ordered that we be given three camels. When we set out, some of us said to others, 
"Allah will not bless us, as we all went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asking him for mounts, and although he had 
sworn that he would not give us mounts, he did give us." So we returned to the Prophet; and 
mentioned that to him. He said, "I have not provided you with mounts, but Allah has. By Allah, Allah 
willing, if I ever take an oath, and then see that another is better than the first, I make expiration for 
my (dissolved) oath, and do what is better and make expiration."
Bukhari:6719 Narrated Hammad:the same narration above (i.e. 709), "I make expiation for my dissolved oath, and I do what is better, 
or do what is better and make expiation."
Bukhari:6720 Narrated Abu Huraira:(The Prophet) Solomon said, "Tonight I will sleep with (my) ninety wives, each of whom will get a 
male child who will fight for Allah's Cause." On that, his companion (Sufyan said that his companion 
was an angel) said to him, "Say, "If Allah will (Allah willing)." But Solomon forgot (to say it). He 
slept with all his wives, but none of the women gave birth to a child, except one who gave birth to a 
halfboy. Abu Huraira added: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Solomon had said, "If Allah will" (Allah willing), 
he would not have been unsuccessful in his action, and would have attained what he had desired." 
Once Abu Huraira added: Allah apostle said, "If he had accepted."
Bukhari:6721 Narrated Zahdam al-Jarmi:We were sitting with Abu Musa Al-Ash'sari, and as there were ties of friendship and mutual favors 
between us and his tribe. His meal was presented before him and there was chicken meat in it. Among 
those who were present there was a man from Bani Taimillah having a red complexion as a non-Arab 
freed slave, and that man did not approach the meal. Abu Musa said to him, "Come along! I have seen 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating of that (i.e., chicken)." The man said, "I have seen it (chickens) eating 
something I regarded as dirty, and so I have taken an oath that I shall not eat (its meat) chicken." Abu 
Musa said, "Come along! I will inform you about it (i.e., your oath). 
Once we went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in company with a group of Ash'airiyin, asking him for mounts 
while he was distributing some camels from the camels of Zakat. (Aiyub said, "I think he said that the 
Prophet was in an angry mood at the time.") The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'By Allah! I will not give you mounts, 
and I have nothing to mount you on.' After we had left, some camels of booty were brought to Allah's 
Apostle and he said, "Where are those Ash`ariyin? Where are those Ash`ariyin?" So we went (to him) 
and he gave us five very fat good-looking camels. We mounted them and went away, and then I said 
to my companions, 'We went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to give us mounts, but he took an oath that he would 
not give us mounts, and then later on he sent for us and gave us mounts, perhaps Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
forgot his oath. By Allah, we will never be successful, for we have taken advantage of the fact that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forgot to fulfill his oath. So let us return to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to remind him of his oath.' 
We returned and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We came to you and asked you for mounts, but you took an 
oath that you would not give us mounts) but later on you gave us mounts, and we thought or 
considered that you have forgotten your oath.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Depart, for Allah has given you 
Mounts. By Allah, Allah willing, if I take an oath and then later find another thing better than that, I 
do what is better, and make expiation for the oath.' "(two other narrations through Zahdam as above)
Bukhari:6722 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(O `Abdur-Rahman!) Do not seek to be a ruler, for, if you are given the 
authority of ruling without your asking for it, then Allah will help you; but if you are given it by your 
asking, then you will be held responsible for it (i.e. Allah will not help you ) . And if you take an oath 
to do something and later on find another thing, better than that, then do what is better and make 
expiation for (the dissolution of) your oath."
Bukhari:6723 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I became sick so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came on foot to pay me a visit. When they came, I was 
unconscious. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed ablution and he poured over me the water (of his ablution) 
and I came to my senses and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What shall I do regarding my property? How 
shall I distribute it?" The Prophet (ﷺ) did not reply till the Divine Verses of inheritance were revealed .
Bukhari:6724 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Beware of suspicion, for it is the worst of false tales and don't look for the 
other's faults and don't spy and don't hate each other, and don't desert (cut your relations with) one 
another O Allah's slaves, be brothers!" (See Hadith No. 90)
Bukhari:6725 Narrated `Aisha:Fatima and Al `Abbas came to Abu Bakr, seeking their share from the property of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
at that time, they were asking for their land at Fadak and their share from Khaibar. Abu Bakr said to 
them, " I have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'Our property cannot be inherited, and whatever we 
leave is to be spent in charity, but the family of Muhammad may take their provisions from this 
property." Abu Bakr added, "By Allah, I will not leave the procedure I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) following 
during his lifetime concerning this property." Therefore Fatima left Abu Bakr and did not speak to 
him till she died.
Bukhari:6726 Narrated `Aisha:Fatima and Al `Abbas came to Abu Bakr, seeking their share from the property of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
at that time, they were asking for their land at Fadak and their share from Khaibar. Abu Bakr said to 
them, " I have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'Our property cannot be inherited, and whatever we 
leave is to be spent in charity, but the family of Muhammad may take their provisions from this 
property." Abu Bakr added, "By Allah, I will not leave the procedure I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) following 
during his lifetime concerning this property." Therefore Fatima left Abu Bakr and did not speak to 
him till she died.
Bukhari:6727 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Our (Apostles') property should not be inherited, and whatever we leave, is to be 
spent in charity."
Bukhari:6728 Narrated Malik bin Aus:'I went and entered upon `Umar, his doorman, Yarfa came saying `Uthman, `Abdur-Rahman, Az- 
Zubair and Sa`d are asking your permission (to see you). May I admit them? `Umar said, 'Yes.' So he 
admitted them Then he came again and said, 'May I admit `Ali and `Abbas?' He said, 'Yes.' `Abbas 
said, 'O, chief of the believers! Judge between me and this man (Ali ). `Umar said, 'I beseech you by 
Allah by Whose permission both the heaven and the earth exist, do you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, 'Our (the Apostles') property will not be inherited, and whatever we leave (after our death) is to 
be spent in charity?' And by that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) meant himself.' The group said, '(No doubt), he said 
so.' `Umar then faced `Ali and `Abbas and said, 'Do you both know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said that?' 
They replied, '(No doubt), he said so.' `Umar said, 'So let me talk to you about this matter. Allah 
favored His Apostle with something of this Fai' (i.e. booty won by the Muslims at war without 
fighting) which He did not give to anybody else; 
Allah said:-- 'And what Allah gave to His Apostle ( Fai' Booty) .........to do all things....(59.6) And so 
that property was only for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . Yet, by Allah, he neither gathered that property for 
himself nor withheld it from you, but he gave its income to you, and distributed it among you till there 
remained the present property out of which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to spend the yearly maintenance for his 
family, and whatever used to remain, he used to spend it where Allah's property is spent (i.e. in charity 
etc.). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) followed that throughout his life. 
Now I beseech you by Allah, do you know all that?' They said, 'Yes.' `Umar then said to `Ali and 
`Abbas, 'I beseech you by Allah, do you know that?' Both of them said, 'Yes.' `Umar added, 'And 
when the Prophet (ﷺ) died, Abu Bakr said, ' I am the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and took charge of that 
property and managed it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did. 
Then I took charge of this property for two years during which I managed it as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
Abu Bakr did. Then you both (`Ali and `Abbas) came to talk to me, bearing the same claim and 
presenting the same case. (O `Abbas!) You came to me asking for your share from the property of 
your nephew, and this man (Ali) came to me, asking for the share of h is wife from the property of her 
father. I said, 'If you both wish, I will give that to you on that condition (i.e. that you would follow the 
way of the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr and as I (`Umar) have done in man aging it).' Now both of you seek 
of me a verdict other than that? Lo! By Allah, by Whose permission both the heaven and the earth 
exist, I will not give any verdict other than that till the Hour is established. If you are unable to 
manage it, then return it to me, and I will be sufficient to manage it on your behalf.' "
Bukhari:6729 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not even a single Dinar of my property should be distributed (after my deaths to 
my inheritors, but whatever I leave excluding the provision for my wives and my servants, should be 
spent in charity."
Bukhari:6730 Narrated `Urwa:`Aisha said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, his wives intended to send `Uthman to Abu Bakr asking him 
for their share of the inheritance." Then `Aisha said to them, "Didn't Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say, 'Our 
(Apostles') property is not to be inherited, and whatever we leave is to be spent in charity?'"
Bukhari:6731 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am more closer to the believers than their own selves, so whoever (of them) dies 
while being in debt and leaves nothing for its repayment, then we are to pay his debts on his behalf 
and whoever (among the believers) dies leaving some property, then that property is for his heirs."
Bukhari:6732 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id (the shares of the inheritance that are prescribed in the Qur'an) to 
those who are entitled to receive it. Then whatever remains, should be given to the closest male 
relative of the deceased ."
Bukhari:6733 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:I was stricken by an ailment that led me to the verge of death. The Prophet (ﷺ) came to pay me a visit. I 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have much property and no heir except my single daughter. Shall I give 
two-thirds of my property in charity?" He said, "No." I said, "Half of it?" He said, "No." I said, "Onethird 
of it?" He said, "You may do so) though one-third is also to a much, for it is better for you to 
leave your off-spring wealthy than to leave them poor, asking others for help. And whatever you 
spend (for Allah's sake) you will be rewarded for it, even for a morsel of food which you may put in 
the mouth of your wife." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will I remain behind and fail to complete my 
emigration?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you are left behind after me, whatever good deeds you will do for 
Allah's sake, that will upgrade you and raise you high. May be you will have long life so that some 
people may benefit by you and others (the enemies) be harmed by you." But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt sorry 
for Sa`d bin Khaula as he died in Mecca. (Sufyan, a sub-narrator said that Sa`d bin Khaula was a man 
from the tribe of Bani 'Amir bin Lu'ai.)
Bukhari:6734 Narrated Al-Aswad bin Yazid:Mu`adh bin Jabal came to us in Yemen as a tutor and a ruler, and we (the people of Yemen) asked him 
about (the distribution of the property of ) a man who had died leaving a daughter and a sister. Mu`adh 
gave the daughter one-half of the property and gave the sister the other half.
Bukhari:6735 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id (shares prescribed in the Qur'an) to those who are entitled to 
receive it; and whatever remains, should be given to the closest male relative of the deceased.'
Bukhari:6736 Narrated Huzail bin Shirahbil:Abu Musa was asked regarding (the inheritance of) a daughter, a son's daughter, and a sister. He said, 
"The daughter will take one-half and the sister will take one-half. If you go to Ibn Mas`ud, he will tell 
you the same." Ibn Mas`ud was asked and was told of Abu Musa's verdict. Ibn Mas`ud then said, "If I 
give the same verdict, I would stray and would not be of the rightly-guided. The verdict I will give in 
this case, will be the same as the Prophet (ﷺ) did, i.e. one-half is for daughter, and one-sixth for the son's 
daughter, i.e. both shares make two-thirds of the total property; and the rest is for the sister." 
Afterwards we cams to Abu Musa and informed him of Ibn Mas`ud's verdict, whereupon he said, "So, 
do not ask me for verdicts, as long as this learned man is among you."
Bukhari:6737 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id, (the shares prescribed in the Qur'an) to those who are entitled to 
receive it, and then whatever remains, should be given to the closest male relative of the deceased."
Bukhari:6738 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The person about whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I were to take a Khalil from this nation (my 
followers), then I would have taken him (i.e., Abu Bakr), but the Islamic Brotherhood is better (or 
said: good)," regarded a grandfather as the father himself (in inheritance).
Bukhari:6739 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(During the early days of Islam), the inheritance used to be given to one's offspring and legacy used to 
be bequeathed to the parents, then Allah cancelled what He wished from that order and decreed that 
the male should be given the equivalent of the portion of two females, and for the parents one-sixth 
for each of them, and for one's wife one-eighth (if the deceased has children) and one-fourth (if he has 
no children), for one's husband one-half (if the deceased has no children) and one-fourth (if she has 
children).
Bukhari:6740 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the judgment that a male or female slave should be given in Qisas for an abortion 
case of a woman from the tribe of Bani Lihyan (as blood money for the fetus) but the lady on whom 
the penalty had been imposed died, so the Prophets ordered that her property be inherited by her 
offspring and her husband and that the penalty be paid by her Asaba.
Bukhari:6741 Narrated Al-Aswad:Mu`adh bin Jabal gave this verdict for us in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). One-half of the inheritance 
is to be given to the daughter and the other half to the sister. Sulaiman said: Mu`adh gave a verdict for 
us, but he did not mention that it was so in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:6742 Narrated Huzail:`Abdullah said, "The judgment I will give in this matter will be like the judgment of the Prophet, i.e. 
one-half is for the daughter and one-sixth for the son's daughter and the rest of the inheritance for the 
sister."
Bukhari:6743 Narrated Jabir:While I was sick, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me and asked for some water to perform ablution, and 
after he had finished his ablution, he sprinkled some water of his ablution over me, whereupon I 
became conscious and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have sisters." Then the Divine Verses regarding the 
laws of inheritance were revealed.
Bukhari:6744 Narrated Al-Bara:The last Qur'anic Verse that was revealed (to the Prophet) was the final Verse of Surat-an-Nisa, i.e., 
'They ask you for a legal verdict Say: Allah directs (thus) About those who leave No descendants or 
ascendants as heirs....' (4.176)
Bukhari:6745 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I am more closer to the believers than their ownselves, so whoever (among 
them) dies leaving some inheritance, his inheritance will be given to his 'Asaba, and whoever dies 
leaving a debt or dependants or destitute children, then I am their supporter."
Bukhari:6746 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id (the shares of the inheritance that are prescribed in the Qur'an) to 
those who are entitled to receive it; and whatever is left should be given to the closest male relative of 
the deceased."
Bukhari:6747 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Holy Verse:--'And to everyone, We have appointed heirs..' And:-- (4.33) 'To those also 
to Whom your right hands have pledged.' (4.33) 
When the emigrants came to Medina, the Ansar used to be the heir of the emigrants (and vice versa) 
instead of their own kindred by blood (Dhawl-l-arham), and that was because of the bond of 
brotherhood which the Prophet (ﷺ) had established between them, i.e. the Ansar and the emigrants. But 
when the Divine Verse:-- 
'And to everyone We have appointed heirs,' (4.33) was revealed, it cancelled the other, order i.e. 'To 
those also, to whom Your right hands have pledged.'
Bukhari:6748 Narrated Ibn `Umar:A man and his wife had a case of Lian (or Mula'ana) during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the man 
denied the paternity of her child. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave his verdict for their separation (divorce) and then 
the child was regarded as belonging to the wife only.
Bukhari:6749 Narrated `Aisha:`Utba (bin Abi Waqqas) said to his brother Sa`d, "The son of the slave girl of Zam`a is my son, so be 
his custodian." So when it was the year of the Conquest of Mecca, Sa`d took that child and said, "He 
is my nephew, and my brother told me to be his custodian." On that, 'Abu bin Zam`a got up and said, 
'but the child is my brother, and the son of my father's slave girl as he was born on his bed." So they 
both went to the Prophet. Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (This is) the son of my brother and he told me 
to be his custodian." Then 'Abu bin Zam`a said, "(But he is) my brother and the son of the slave girl of 
my father, born on his bed." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This child is for you. O 'Abu bin Zam`a, as the child is 
for the owner of the bed, and the adulterer receives the stones." He then ordered (his wife) Sauda bint 
Zam`a to cover herself before that boy as he noticed the boy's resemblance to `Utba. Since then the 
boy had never seen Sauda till he died.
Bukhari:6750 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for the owner of the bed."
Bukhari:6751 Narrated `Aisha:I bought Barira (a female slave). The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to me), "Buy her as the Wala' is for the 
manumitted." Once she was given a sheep (in charity). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It (the sheep) is a charitable 
gift for her (Barira) and a gift for us." Al-Hakam said, "Barira's husband was a free man." Ibn `Abbas 
said, 'When I saw him, he was a slave."
Bukhari:6752 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Wala' is for the manumitted (of the slave).
Bukhari:6753 Narrated `Abdullah:The Muslims did not free slaves as Sa'iba, but the People of the Pre-lslamic Period of Ignorance used 
to do so.
Bukhari:6754 Narrated Al-Aswad:`Aisha bought Barira in order to manumit her, but her masters stipulated that her Wala' (after her 
death) would be for them. `Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have bought Barira in order to manumit 
her, but her masters stipulated that her Wala' will be for them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Manumit her as the 
Wala is for the one who manumits (the slave)," or said, "The one who pays her price." Then `Aisha 
bought and manumitted her. After that, Barira was given the choice (by the Prophet) (to stay with her 
husband or leave him). She said, "If he gave me so much and so much (money) I would not stay with 
him." (Al-Aswad added: Her husband was a free man.) The sub-narrator added: The series of the 
narrators of Al-Aswad's statement is incomplete. The statement of Ibn `Abbas, i.e., when I saw him he 
was a slave, is more authentic.
Bukhari:6755 Narrated `Ali:We have no Book to recite except the Book of Allah (Qur'an) and this paper. Then `Ali took out the 
paper, and behold ! There was written in it, legal verdicts about the retaliation for wounds, the ages of 
the camels (to be paid as Zakat or as blood money). In it was also written: 'Medina is a sanctuary from 
Air (mountain) to Thaur (mountain). So whoever innovates in it an heresy (something new in religion) 
or commits a crime in it or gives shelter to such an innovator, will incur the curse of Allah, the angels 
and all the people, and none of his compulsory or optional good deeds will be accepted on the Day of 
Resurrection. And whoever (a freed slave) takes as his master (i.e. be-friends) some people other than 
hi real masters without the permission of his real masters, will incur the curse of Allah, the angels and 
all the people, and none of his compulsory, or optional good deeds will be accepted on the Day of 
Resurrection. And the asylum granted by any Muslim is to be secured by all the Muslims, even if it is 
granted by one of the lowest social status among them; and whoever betrays a Muslim, in this respect 
will incur the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people, and none of his Compulsory or optional 
good deeds will be accepted on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:6756 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of the Wala' (of slaves) or giving it as a present.
Bukhari:6757 Narrated Ibn `Umar:That Aisha, the mother of the Believers, intended to buy a slave girl in order to manumit her. The 
slave girl's master said, "We are ready to sell her to you on the condition that her Wala should be for 
us." Aisha mentioned that to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "This (condition) should not prevent you from 
buying her, for the Wala is for the one who manumits (the slave)."
Bukhari:6758 Narrated Al-Aswad:Aisha said, "I bought Barira and her masters stipulated that the Wala would be for them." Aisha 
mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "Manumit her, as the Wala is for the one who gives the 
silver (i.e. pays the price for freeing the slave)." Aisha added, "So I manumitted her. After that, the 
Prophet caller her (Barira) and gave her the choice to go back to her husband or not. She said, "If he 
gave me so much and so much (money) I would not stay with him." So she selected her ownself (i.e. 
refused to go back to her husband)."
Bukhari:6759 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When Aisha intended to buy Barira, she said to the Prophet, "Barira's masters stipulated that they will 
have the Wala." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Aisha), "Buy her, as the Wala is for the one who manumits."
Bukhari:6760 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The wala is for the one who gives the silver (pays the price) and does the favor 
(of manumission after paying the price).
Bukhari:6761 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The freed slave belongs to the people who have freed him," or said something 
similar.
Bukhari:6762 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The son of the sister of some people is from them or from their own selves."
Bukhari:6763 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " If somebody dies (among the Muslims) leaving some property, the property will 
go to his heirs; and if he leaves a debt or dependants, we will take care of them."
Bukhari:6764 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim cannot be the heir of a disbeliever, nor can a disbeliever be the heir of a 
Muslim."
Bukhari:6765 Narrated `Aisha:Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas and 'Abu bin Zam`a had a dispute over a boy. Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
This (boy) is the son of my brother, `Utba bin Abi Waqqas who told me to be his custodian as he was 
his son. Please notice to whom he bears affinity." And 'Abu bin Zam`a said, "This is my brother, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He was born on my father's bed by his slave girl." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) looked at the boy 
and noticed evident resemblance between him and `Utba, so he said, "He (the toy) is for you, O 'Abu 
bin Zam`a, for the boy is for the owner of the bed, and the stone is for the adulterer. Screen yourself 
before the boy, O Sauda bint Zam`a." `Aisha added: Since then he had never seen Sauda.
Bukhari:6766 Narrated Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever claims to be the son of a person other than his father, and he 
knows that person is not his father, then Paradise will be forbidden for him." I mentioned that to Abu 
Bakra, and he said, "My ears heard that and my heart memorized it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:6767 Narrated Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever claims to be the son of a person other than his father, and he 
knows that person is not his father, then Paradise will be forbidden for him." I mentioned that to Abu 
Bakra, and he said, "My ears heard that and my heart memorized it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:6768 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not deny your fathers (i.e. claim to be the sons of persons other than your 
fathers), and whoever denies his father, is charged with disbelief."
Bukhari:6769 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There were two women with whom there were their two sons. A wolf came and 
took away the son of one of them. That lady said to her companion, 'The wolf has taken your son.' The 
other said, 'But it has taken your son.' So both of them sought the judgment of (the Prophet) David 
who judged that the boy should be given to the older lady. Then both of them went to (the Prophet) 
Solomon, son of David and informed him of the case. Solomon said, 'Give me a knife so that I may 
cut the child into two portions and give one half to each of you.' The younger lady said, 'Do not do so; 
may Allah bless you ! He is her child.' On that, he gave the child to the younger lady." Abu Huraira 
added: By Allah! I had never heard the word 'Sakkin' as meaning knife, except on that day, for we 
used to call it "Mudya".
Bukhari:6770 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once entered upon me in a very happy mood, with his features glittering with joy, and 
said, "O `Aisha! won't you see that Mujazziz (a Qa'if) looked just now at Zaid bin Haritha and Usama 
bin Zaid and said, 'These feet (of Usama and his father) belong to each other." (See Hadith No. 755, 
Vol. 4)
Bukhari:6771 Narrated `Aisha:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me and he was in a very happy mood and said, "O `Aisha: Don't 
you know that Mujazziz Al-Mudliji entered and saw Usama and Zaid with a velvet covering on them 
and their heads were covered while their feet were uncovered. He said, 'These feet belong to each 
other.'
Bukhari:6772 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When an adulterer commits illegal sexual intercourse, then he is not a believer 
at the time he is doing it; and when somebody drinks an alcoholic drink, then he is not believer at the 
time of drinking, and when a thief steals, he is not a believer at the time when he is stealing; and when 
a robber robs and the people look at him, then he is not a believer at the time of doing it." Abu Huraira 
in another narration, narrated the same from the Prophet (ﷺ) with the exclusion of robbery.
Bukhari:6773 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) beat a drunk with palm-leaf stalks and shoes. And Abu Bakr gave (such a sinner) forty 
lashes.
Bukhari:6774 Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:An-Nu`man or the son of An-Nu`man was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a charge of drunkenness. So the 
Prophet ordered all the men present in the house, to beat him. So all of them beat him, and I was also 
one of them who beat him with shoes.
Bukhari:6775 Narrated' `Uqba bin Al-Harith:An-Nu`man or the son of An-Nu`man was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) in a state of intoxication. The 
Prophet felt it hard (was angry) and ordered all those who were present in the house, to beat him. And 
they beat him, using palm-leaf stalks and shoes, and I was among those who beat him.
Bukhari:6776 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) lashed a drunk with dateleaf stalks and shoes. And Abu Bakr gave a drunk forty lashes.
Bukhari:6777 Narrated Abu Salama:Abu Huraira said, "A man who drank wine was brought to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Beat him!" 
Abu Huraira added, "So some of us beat him with our hands, and some with their shoes, and some 
with their garments (by twisting it) like a lash, and then when we finished, someone said to him, 'May 
Allah disgrace you!' On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do not say so, for you are helping Satan to overpower 
him.' "
Bukhari:6778 Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:I would not feel sorry for one who dies because of receiving a legal punishment, except the drunk, for 
if he should die (when being punished), I would give blood money to his family because no fixed 
punishment has been ordered by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the drunk.
Bukhari:6779 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:We used to strike the drunks with our hands, shoes, clothes (by twisting it into the shape of lashes) 
during the lifetime of the Prophet, Abu Bakr and the early part of `Umar's caliphate. But during the 
last period of `Umar's caliphate, he used to give the drunk forty lashes; and when drunks became 
mischievous and disobedient, he used to scourge them eighty lashes.
Bukhari:6780 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) there was a man called `Abdullah whose nickname was Donkey, 
and he used to make Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) laugh. The Prophet (ﷺ) lashed him because of drinking (alcohol). 
And one-day he was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the same charge and was lashed. On that, a man among 
the people said, "O Allah, curse him ! How frequently he has been brought (to the Prophet (ﷺ) on such a 
charge)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not curse him, for by Allah, I know for he loves Allah and His 
Apostle."
Bukhari:6781 Narrated Abu Huraira:A drunk was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he ordered him to be beaten (lashed). Some of us beat him 
with our hands, and some with their shoes, and some with their garments (twisted in the form of a 
lash). When that drunk had left, a man said, "What is wrong with him? May Allah disgrace him!" 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not help Satan against your (Muslim) brother."
Bukhari:6782 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When (a person) an adulterer commits illegal sexual intercourse then he is not a 
believer at the time he is doing it; and when somebody steals, then he is not a believer at the time he is 
stealing."
Bukhari:6783 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah curses a man who steals an egg and gets his hand cut off, or steals a rope and 
gets his hands cut off." Al-A`mash said, "People used to interpret the Baida as an iron helmet, and 
they used to think that the rope may cost a few dirhams."
Bukhari:6784 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a gathering and he said, 'Swear allegiance to me that you will not 
worship anything besides Allah, Will not steal, and will not commit illegal sexual intercourse." And 
then (the Prophet) recited the whole Verse (i.e. 60:12). The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'And whoever among you 
fulfills his pledge, his reward is with Allah; and whoever commits something of such sins and receives 
the legal punishment for it, that will be considered as the expiation for that sin, and whoever commits 
something of such sins and Allah screens him, it is up to Allah whether to excuse or punish him."
Bukhari:6785 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah Apostle said in Hajjat-al-Wada`, "Which month (of the year) do you think is most sacred?" The 
people said, "This current month of ours (the month of Dhull-Hijja)." He said, "Which town (country) 
do you think is the most sacred?" They said, "This city of ours (Mecca)." He said, "Which day do you 
think is the most sacred?" The people said, "This day of ours." He then said, "Allah, the Blessed, the 
Supreme, has made your blood, your property and your honor as sacred as this day of yours in this 
town of yours, in this month of yours (and such protection cannot be slighted) except rightfully." He 
then said thrice, "Have I conveyed Allah's Message (to you)?" The people answered him each time 
saying, 'Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'May Allah be merciful to you (or, woe on you)! Do not revert to 
disbelief after me by cutting the necks of each other.'
Bukhari:6786 Narrated Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) was given an option between two things, he used to select the easier of the tow 
as long as it was not sinful; but if it was sinful, he would remain far from it. By Allah, he never took 
revenge for himself concerning any matter that was presented to him, but when Allah's Limits were 
transgressed, he would take revenge for Allah's Sake.
Bukhari:6787 Narrated `Aisha:Usama approached the Prophet (ﷺ) on behalf of a woman (who had committed theft). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"The people before you were destroyed because they used to inflict the legal punishments on the poor 
and forgive the rich. By Him in Whose Hand my soul is! If Fatima (the daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) did 
that (i.e. stole), I would cut off her hand."
Bukhari:6788 Narrated `Aisha:The Quraish people became very worried about the Makhzumiya lady who had committed theft. They 
said, "Nobody can speak (in favor of the lady) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and nobody dares do that except 
Usama who is the favorite of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). " When Usama spoke to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that 
matter, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you intercede (with me) to violate one of the legal punishment of 
Allah?" Then he got up and addressed the people, saying, "O people! The nations before you went 
astray because if a noble person committed theft, they used to leave him, but if a weak person among 
them committed theft, they used to inflict the legal punishment on him. By Allah, if Fatima, the 
daughter of Muhammad committed theft, Muhammad will cut off her hand.!"
Bukhari:6789 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand should be cut off for stealing something that is worth a quarter of a Dinar 
or more."
Bukhari:6790 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand of a thief should be cut off for stealing a quarter of a Dinar."
Bukhari:6791 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand should be cut off for stealing a quarter of a Dinar."
Bukhari:6792 Narrated `Aisha:The hand of a thief was not cut off during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) except for stealing something 
equal to a shield in value.A similar hadith is narrated from `Aisha through another chain.
Bukhari:6793 Narrated `Aisha:A thief's hand was not cut off for stealing something cheaper than a Hajafa or a Turs (two kinds of 
shields), each of which was worth a (respectable) price.
Bukhari:6794 Narrated `Aisha:A thief's hand was not cut off for stealing something worth less than the price of a shield, whether a 
Turs or Hajafa (two kinds of shields), each of which was worth a (respectable) price.
Bukhari:6795 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Bukhari:6796 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Bukhari:6797 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Bukhari:6798 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) cutoff the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Bukhari:6799 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah 's Apostle said, "Allah curses the thief who steals an egg (or a helmet) for which his hand is to 
be cut off, or steals a rope, for which his hand is to be cut off."
Bukhari:6800 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a lady, and that lady used to come to me, and I used to convey her 
message to the Prophet (ﷺ) and she repented, and her repentance was sincere.
Bukhari:6801 Narrated Ubada bin As-Samit:I gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a group of people, and he said, "I take your pledge 
that you will not worship anything besides Allah, will not steal, will not commit infanticide, will not 
slander others by forging false statements and spreading it, and will not disobey me in anything good. 
And whoever among you fulfill all these (obligations of the pledge), his reward is with Allah. And 
whoever commits any of the above crimes and receives his legal punishment in this world, that will be 
his expiation and purification. But if Allah screens his sin, it will be up to Allah, Who will either 
punish or forgive him according to His wish." Abu `Abdullah said: "If a thief repents after his hand 
has been cut off, the his witness well be accepted. Similarly, if any person upon whom any legal 
punishment has been inflicted, repents, his witness will be accepted."
Bukhari:6802 Narrated Anas:Some people from the tribe of `Ukl came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and embraced Islam. The climate of Medina 
did not suit them, so the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to go to the (herd of milch) camels of charity and to 
drink, their milk and urine (as a medicine). They did so, and after they had recovered from their 
ailment (became healthy) they turned renegades (reverted from Islam) and killed the shepherd of the 
camels and took the camels away. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent (some people) in their pursuit and so they were 
(caught and) brought, and the Prophets ordered that their hands and legs should be cut off and that 
their eyes should be branded with heated pieces of iron, and that their cut hands and legs should not be 
cauterized, till they die.
Bukhari:6803 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hands and feet of the men belonging to the tribe of `Uraina and did not 
cauterise (their bleeding limbs) till they died.
Bukhari:6804 Narrated Anas:A group of people from `Ukl (tribe) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and they were living with the people of As- 
Suffa, but they became ill as the climate of Medina did not suit them, so they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Provide us with milk." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, I see no other way for you than to use the camels of Allah's 
Apostle." So they went and drank the milk and urine of the camels, (as medicine) and became healthy 
and fat. Then they killed the shepherd and took the camels away. When a help-seeker came to Allah's 
Apostle, he sent some men in their pursuit, and they were captured and brought before mid day. The 
Prophet ordered for some iron pieces to be made red hot, and their eyes were branded with them and 
their hands and feet were cut off and were not cauterized. Then they were put at a place called Al- 
Harra, and when they asked for water to drink they were not given till they died. (Abu Qilaba said, 
"Those people committed theft and murder and fought against Allah and His Apostle.")
Bukhari:6805 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A group of people from `Ukl (or `Uraina) tribe ----but I think he said that they were from `Ukl came to 
Medina and (they became ill, so) the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to go to the herd of (Milch) she-camels 
and told them to go out and drink the camels' urine and milk (as a medicine). So they went and drank 
it, and when they became healthy, they killed the shepherd and drove away the camels. This news 
reached the Prophet (ﷺ) early in the morning, so he sent (some) men in their pursuit and they were 
captured and brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) before midday. He ordered to cut off their hands and legs and 
their eyes to be branded with heated iron pieces and they were thrown at Al-Harra, and when they 
asked for water to drink, they were not given water. (Abu Qilaba said, "Those were the people who 
committed theft and murder and reverted to disbelief after being believers (Muslims), and fought 
against Allah and His Apostle").
Bukhari:6806 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seven (people) will be shaded by Allah by His Shade on the Day of Resurrection 
when there will be no shade except His Shade. (They will be), a just ruler, a young man who has been 
brought up in the worship of Allah, a man who remembers Allah in seclusion and his eyes are then 
flooded with tears, a man whose heart is attached to mosques (offers his compulsory congregational 
prayers in the mosque), two men who love each other for Allah's Sake, a man who is called by a 
charming lady of noble birth to commit illegal sexual intercourse with her, and he says, 'I am afraid of 
Allah,' and (finally), a man who gives in charity so secretly that his left hand does not know what his 
right hand has given."
Bukhari:6807 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever guarantees me (the chastity of) what is between his legs (i.e. his private 
parts), and what is between his jaws (i.e., his tongue), I guarantee him Paradise."
Bukhari:6808 Narrated Anas:I will narrate to you a narration which nobody will narrate to you 
     after me. I heard that from the Prophet. I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 
     "The Hour will not be established" or said: "From among the portents 
     of the Hour is that the religious knowledge will betaken away (by the 
     death of religious Scholars) and general ignorance (of religion) will 
     appear; and the drinking of alcoholic drinks will be very common, and 
     (open) illegal sexual intercourse will prevail, and men will decrease 
     in number while women will increase so much so that, for fifty women 
     there will only be one man to look after them."
Bukhari:6809 Narrated 'Ikrima from Ibn 'Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s said, "When a slave (of Allah) commits illegal sexual
     intercourse, he is not a believer at the time of committing it; and if
     he steals, he is not a believer at the time of stealing; and if he 
     drinks an alcoholic drink, when he is not a believer at the time of 
     drinking it; and he is not a believer when he commits a murder," 
     'Ikrima said: I asked Ibn Abbas, "How is faith taken away from him?" 
     He said, Like this," by clasping his hands and then separating them, 
     and added, "But if he repents, faith returns to him like this, by 
     clasping his hands again.
Bukhari:6810 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who commits an illegal sexual intercourse is not a believer at the time of 
committing illegal sexual intercourse and a thief is not a believer at the time of committing theft and a 
drinker of alcoholic drink is not a believer at the time of drinking. Yet, (the gate of) repentance is open 
thereafter."
Bukhari:6811 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which is the biggest sin?" He said, "To set up rivals to Allah by 
worshipping others though He alone has created you." I asked, "What is next?" He said, "To kill your 
child lest it should share your food." I asked, "What is next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual 
intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Bukhari:6812 Narrated Ash-Shu`bi:from `Ali when the latter stoned a lady to death on a Friday. `Ali said, "I have stoned her according to 
the tradition of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:6813 Narrated Ash Shaibani:I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa, 'Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) carry out the Rajam penalty ( i.e., stoning to 
death)?' He said, "Yes." I said, "Before the revelation of Surat-an-Nur or after it?" He replied, "I don't 
Know."
Bukhari:6814 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:A man from the tribe of Bani Aslam came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Informed him that he had committed 
illegal sexual intercourse and bore witness four times against himself. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him to 
be stoned to death as he was a married Person.
Bukhari:6815 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque, and he called him, saying, "O Allah's 
Apostle! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse.'" The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, 
but that man repeated his statement four times, and after he bore witness against himself four times, 
the Prophet (ﷺ) called him, saying, "Are you mad?" The man said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you 
married?" The man said, "Yes." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take him away and stone him to death." Jabir 
bin `Abdullah said: I was among the ones who participated in stoning him and we stoned him at the 
Musalla. When the stones troubled him, he fled, but we over took him at Al-Harra and stoned him to 
death.
Bukhari:6816 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque, and he called him, saying, "O Allah's 
Apostle! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse.'" The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, 
but that man repeated his statement four times, and after he bore witness against himself four times, 
the Prophet (ﷺ) called him, saying, "Are you mad?" The man said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you 
married?" The man said, "Yes." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take him away and stone him to death." Jabir 
bin `Abdullah said: I was among the ones who participated in stoning him and we stoned him at the 
Musalla. When the stones troubled him, he fled, but we over took him at Al-Harra and stoned him to 
death.
Bukhari:6817 Narrated `Aisha:Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas and `Abd bin Zam`a quarrelled with each other (regarding a child). The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "The boy is for you, O `Abd bin Zam`a, for the boy is for (the owner) of the bed. O Sauda ! 
Screen yourself from the boy." The sub-narrator, Al-Laith added (that the Prophet (ﷺ) also said), "And the 
stone is for the person who commits an illegal sexual intercourse."
Bukhari:6818 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for (the owner of) the bed and the stone is for the person who commits 
illegal sexual intercourse.'
Bukhari:6819 Narrated Ibn `Umar:A Jew and a Jewess were brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on a charge of committing an illegal sexual 
intercourse. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked them. "What is the legal punishment (for this sin) in your Book 
(Torah)?" They replied, "Our priests have innovated the punishment of blackening the faces with 
charcoal and Tajbiya." `Abdullah bin Salam said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), tell them to bring the Torah." 
The Torah was brought, and then one of the Jews put his hand over the Divine Verse of the Rajam 
(stoning to death) and started reading what preceded and what followed it. On that, Ibn Salam said to 
the Jew, "Lift up your hand." Behold! The Divine Verse of the Rajam was under his hand. So Allah's 
Apostle ordered that the two (sinners) be stoned to death, and so they were stoned. Ibn `Umar added: 
So both of them were stoned at the Balat and I saw the Jew sheltering the Jewess.
Bukhari:6820 Narrated Jabir:A man from the tribe of Aslam came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and confessed that he had committed an illegal 
sexual intercourse. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face away from him till the man bore witness against 
himself four times. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Are you mad?" He said "No." He said, "Are you 
married?" He said, "Yes." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that he be stoned to death, and he was stoned to 
death at the Musalla. When the stones troubled him, he fled, but he was caught and was stoned till he 
died. The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke well of him and offered his funeral prayer.
Bukhari:6821 Narrated Abu Huraira:A person had sexual relation with his wife in the month of Ramadan 
     (while he was fasting), and he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) seeking his 
     verdict concerning that action. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Can you 
     afford to manumit a slave?" The man said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can
     you fast for two successive months?" He said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
     "Then feed sixty poor persons."
Bukhari:6822 Narrated 'Aisha:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque and said, "I am burnt 
     (ruined)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "With what (what have you done)?" He
     said, "I have had sexual relation with my wife in the month of Ramadan
     (while fasting)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Give in charity." He said,
     "I have nothing." The man sat down, and in the meantime there came a 
     person driving a donkey carrying food to the Prophet (ﷺ) ..... (The 
     sub-narrator, 'Abdur Rahman added: I do not know what kind of food it 
     was). On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where is the burnt person?" The man 
     said, "Here I am." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Take this (food) and give
     it in charity (to someone)." The man said, "To a poorer person than l?
     My family has nothing to eat." Then the Prophet (ﷺ)  said to him, "Then 
     eat it yourselves."
Bukhari:6823 Narrated Anas bin Malik:While I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) a man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed a legally 
punishable sin; please inflict the legal punishment on me'.' The Prophet (ﷺ) did not ask him what he had 
done. Then the time for the prayer became due and the man offered prayer along with the Prophet (ﷺ) , 
and when the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished his prayer, the man again got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I 
have committed a legally punishable sin; please inflict the punishment on me according to Allah's 
Laws." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Haven't you prayed with us?' He said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has 
forgiven your sin." or said, "....your legally punishable sin."
Bukhari:6824 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When Ma'iz bin Malik came to the Prophet (in order to confess), the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Probably 
you have only kissed (the lady), or winked, or looked at her?" He said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The 
Prophet said, using no euphemism, "Did you have sexual intercourse with her?" The narrator added: 
At that, (i.e. after his confession) the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that he be stoned (to death).
Bukhari:6825 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man from among the people, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting in the 
mosque, and addressed him, saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed an illegal sexual 
intercourse." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face away from him. The man came to that side to which the 
Prophet had turned his face, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed an illegal intercourse." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, and the man came to that side, and when he confessed 
four times, the Prophet (ﷺ) called him and said, "Are you mad?" He said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The 
Prophet said, "Are you married?" He said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the people), 
"Take him away and stone him to death." Ibn Shihab added, "I was told by one who heard Jabir, that 
Jabir said, 'I was among those who stoned the man, and we stoned him at the Musalla (`Id praying 
Place), and when the stones troubled him, he jumped quickly and ran away, but we overtook him at 
Al-Harra and stoned him to death (there).' "
Bukhari:6826 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man from among the people, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting in the 
mosque, and addressed him, saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed an illegal sexual 
intercourse." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face away from him. The man came to that side to which the 
Prophet had turned his face, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed an illegal intercourse." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, and the man came to that side, and when he confessed 
four times, the Prophet (ﷺ) called him and said, "Are you mad?" He said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The 
Prophet said, "Are you married?" He said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the people), 
"Take him away and stone him to death." Ibn Shihab added, "I was told by one who heard Jabir, that 
Jabir said, 'I was among those who stoned the man, and we stoned him at the Musalla (`Id praying 
Place), and when the stones troubled him, he jumped quickly and ran away, but we overtook him at 
Al-Harra and stoned him to death (there).' "
Bukhari:6827 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:While we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) , a man stood up and said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "I beseech you by Allah, 
that you should judge us according to Allah's Laws." Then the man's opponent who was wiser than 
him, got up saying (to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) "Judge us according to Allah's Law and kindly allow me (to 
speak)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "'Speak." He said, "My son was a laborer working for this man and he 
committed an illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and I gave one-hundred sheep and a slave as a 
ransom for my son's sin. Then I asked a learned man about this case and he informed me that my son 
should receive one hundred lashes and be exiled for one year, and the man's wife should be stoned to 
death." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I will judge you according to the Laws 
of Allah. Your one-hundred sheep and the slave are to be returned to you, and your son has to receive 
one-hundred lashes and be exiled for one year. O Unais! Go to the wife of this man, and if she 
confesses, then stone her to death." Unais went to her and she confessed. He then stoned her to death.
Bukhari:6828 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:While we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) , a man stood up and said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "I beseech you by Allah, 
that you should judge us according to Allah's Laws." Then the man's opponent who was wiser than 
him, got up saying (to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) "Judge us according to Allah's Law and kindly allow me (to 
speak)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "'Speak." He said, "My son was a laborer working for this man and he 
committed an illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and I gave one-hundred sheep and a slave as a 
ransom for my son's sin. Then I asked a learned man about this case and he informed me that my son 
should receive one hundred lashes and be exiled for one year, and the man's wife should be stoned to 
death." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I will judge you according to the Laws 
of Allah. Your one-hundred sheep and the slave are to be returned to you, and your son has to receive 
one-hundred lashes and be exiled for one year. O Unais! Go to the wife of this man, and if she 
confesses, then stone her to death." Unais went to her and she confessed. He then stoned her to death.
Bukhari:6829 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:`Umar said, "I am afraid that after a long time has passed, people may say, "We do not find the Verses 
of the Rajam (stoning to death) in the Holy Book," and consequently they may go astray by leaving an 
obligation that Allah has revealed. Lo! I confirm that the penalty of Rajam be inflicted on him who 
commits illegal sexual intercourse, if he is already married and the crime is proved by witnesses or 
pregnancy or confession." Sufyan added, "I have memorized this narration in this way." `Umar added, 
"Surely Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) carried out the penalty of Rajam, and so did we after him."
Bukhari:6830 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I used to teach (the Qur'an to) some people of the Muhajirln (emigrants), among whom there was 
`Abdur Rahman bin `Auf. While I was in his house at Mina, and he was with `Umar bin Al-Khattab 
during `Umar's last Hajj, `Abdur-Rahman came to me and said, "Would that you had seen the man 
who came today to the Chief of the Believers (`Umar), saying, 'O Chief of the Believers! What do you 
think about so-and-so who says, 'If `Umar should die, I will give the pledge of allegiance to such-andsuch 
person, as by Allah, the pledge of allegiance to Abu Bakr was nothing but a prompt sudden 
action which got established afterwards.' `Umar became angry and then said, 'Allah willing, I will 
stand before the people tonight and warn them against those people who want to deprive the others of 
their rights (the question of rulership). 
`Abdur-Rahman said, "I said, 'O Chief of the believers! Do not do that, for the season of Hajj gathers 
the riff-raff and the rubble, and it will be they who will gather around you when you stand to address 
the people. And I am afraid that you will get up and say something, and some people will spread your 
statement and may not say what you have actually said and may not understand its meaning, and may 
interpret it incorrectly, so you should wait till you reach Medina, as it is the place of emigration and 
the place of Prophet's Traditions, and there you can come in touch with the learned and noble people, 
and tell them your ideas with confidence; and the learned people will understand your statement and 
put it in its proper place.' On that, `Umar said, 'By Allah! Allah willing, I will do this in the first 
speech I will deliver before the people in Medina." 
Ibn `Abbas added: We reached Medina by the end of the month of Dhul-Hijja, and when it was 
Friday, we went quickly (to the mosque) as soon as the sun had declined, and I saw Sa`id bin Zaid bin 
`Amr bin Nufail sitting at the corner of the pulpit, and I too sat close to him so that my knee was 
touching his knee, and after a short while `Umar bin Al-Khattab came out, and when I saw him 
coming towards us, I said to Sa`id bin Zaid bin `Amr bin Nufail "Today `Umar will say such a thing 
as he has never said since he was chosen as Caliph." Sa`id denied my statement with astonishment and 
said, "What thing do you expect `Umar to say the like of which he has never said before?" 
In the meantime, `Umar sat on the pulpit and when the callmakers for the prayer had finished their 
call, `Umar stood up, and having glorified and praised Allah as He deserved, he said, "Now then, I am 
going to tell you something which (Allah) has written for me to say. I do not know; perhaps it 
portends my death, so whoever understands and remembers it, must narrate it to the others wherever 
his mount takes him, but if somebody is afraid that he does not understand it, then it is unlawful for 
him to tell lies about me. Allah sent Muhammad with the Truth and revealed the Holy Book to him, 
and among what Allah revealed, was the Verse of the Rajam (the stoning of married person (male & 
female) who commits illegal sexual intercourse, and we did recite this Verse and understood and 
memorized it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did carry out the punishment of stoning and so did we after him. 
I am afraid that after a long time has passed, somebody will say, 'By Allah, we do not find the Verse 
of the Rajam in Allah's Book,' and thus they will go astray by leaving an obligation which Allah has 
revealed. And the punishment of the Rajam is to be inflicted to any married person (male & female), 
who commits illegal sexual intercourse, if the required evidence is available or there is conception or 
confession. And then we used to recite among the Verses in Allah's Book: 'O people! Do not claim to 
be the offspring of other than your fathers, as it is disbelief (unthankfulness) on your part that you 
claim to be the offspring of other than your real father.' Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Do not praise me 
excessively as Jesus, son of Marry was praised, but call me Allah's Slave and His Apostles.' (O 
people!) I have been informed that a speaker amongst you says, 'By Allah, if `Umar should die, I will 
give the pledge of allegiance to such-and-such person.' One should not deceive oneself by saying that 
the pledge of allegiance given to Abu Bakr was given suddenly and it was successful. No doubt, it was 
like that, but Allah saved (the people) from its evil, and there is none among you who has the qualities 
of Abu Bakr. Remember that whoever gives the pledge of allegiance to anybody among you without 
consulting the other Muslims, neither that person, nor the person to whom the pledge of allegiance 
was given, are to be supported, lest they both should be killed. 
And no doubt after the death of the Prophet (ﷺ) we were informed that the Ansar disagreed with us and 
gathered in the shed of Bani Sa`da. `Ali and Zubair and whoever was with them, opposed us, while 
the emigrants gathered with Abu Bakr. I said to Abu Bakr, 'Let's go to these Ansari brothers of ours.' 
So we set out seeking them, and when we approached them, two pious men of theirs met us and 
informed us of the final decision of the Ansar, and said, 'O group of Muhajirin (emigrants) ! Where 
are you going?' We replied, 'We are going to these Ansari brothers of ours.' They said to us, 'You 
shouldn't go near them. Carry out whatever we have already decided.' I said, 'By Allah, we will go to 
them.' And so we proceeded until we reached them at the shed of Bani Sa`da. Behold! There was a 
man sitting amongst them and wrapped in something. I asked, 'Who is that man?' They said, 'He is 
Sa`d bin 'Ubada.' I asked, 'What is wrong with him?' They said, 'He is sick.' After we sat for a while, 
the Ansar's speaker said, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah,' and praising Allah as He 
deserved, he added, 'To proceed, we are Allah's Ansar (helpers) and the majority of the Muslim army, 
while you, the emigrants, are a small group and some people among you came with the intention of 
preventing us from practicing this matter (of caliphate) and depriving us of it.' 
When the speaker had finished, I intended to speak as I had prepared a speech which I liked and which 
I wanted to deliver in the presence of Abu Bakr, and I used to avoid provoking him. So, when I 
wanted to speak, Abu Bakr said, 'Wait a while.' I disliked to make him angry. So Abu Bakr himself 
gave a speech, and he was wiser and more patient than I. By Allah, he never missed a sentence that I 
liked in my own prepared speech, but he said the like of it or better than it spontaneously. After a 
pause he said, 'O Ansar! You deserve all (the qualities that you have attributed to yourselves, but this 
question (of Caliphate) is only for the Quraish as they are the best of the Arabs as regards descent and 
home, and I am pleased to suggest that you choose either of these two men, so take the oath of 
allegiance to either of them as you wish. And then Abu Bakr held my hand and Abu Ubaida bin 
al-Jarrah's hand who was sitting amongst us. I hated nothing of what he had said except that 
proposal, for by Allah, I would rather have my neck chopped off as expiator for a sin than become the 
ruler of a nation, one of whose members is Abu Bakr, unless at the time of my death my own-self 
suggests something I don't feel at present.' 
And then one of the Ansar said, 'I am the pillar on which the camel with a skin disease (eczema) rubs 
itself to satisfy the itching (i.e., I am a noble), and I am as a high class palm tree! O Quraish. There 
should be one ruler from us and one from you.' 
Then there was a hue and cry among the gathering and their voices rose so that I was afraid there 
might be great disagreement, so I said, 'O Abu Bakr! Hold your hand out.' He held his hand out and I 
pledged allegiance to him, and then all the emigrants gave the Pledge of allegiance and so did the 
Ansar afterwards. And so we became victorious over Sa`d bin Ubada (whom Al-Ansar wanted to 
make a ruler). One of the Ansar said, 'You have killed Sa`d bin Ubada.' I replied, 'Allah has killed 
Sa`d bin Ubada.' `Umar added, "By Allah, apart from the great tragedy that had happened to us (i.e. 
the death of the Prophet), there was no greater problem than the allegiance pledged to Abu Bakr 
because we were afraid that if we left the people, they might give the Pledge of allegiance after us to 
one of their men, in which case we would have given them our consent for something against our real 
wish, or would have opposed them and caused great trouble. So if any person gives the Pledge of 
allegiance to somebody (to become a Caliph) without consulting the other Muslims, then the one he 
has selected should not be granted allegiance, lest both of them should be killed."
Bukhari:6831 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) ordering that an unmarried person guilty of illegal sexual intercourse be flogged 
one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. `Umar bin Al-Khattab also exiled such a person, and 
this tradition is still valid.
Bukhari:6832 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) ordering that an unmarried person guilty of illegal sexual intercourse be flogged 
one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. `Umar bin Al-Khattab also exiled such a person, and 
this tradition is still valid.
Bukhari:6833 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) judged that the unmarried person who was guilty of illegal sexual intercourse be 
exiled for one year and receive the legal punishment (i.e., be flogged with one-hundred stripes) .
Bukhari:6834 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) cursed the effeminate men and those women who assume the similitude (manners) of 
men. He also said, "Turn them out of your houses." He turned such-and-such person out, and `Umar 
also turned out such-and-such person.
Bukhari:6835 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he (the Prophet) was sitting, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give 
your verdict according to Allah's Laws (in our case)." Then his opponent got up and said, "He has told 
the truth, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Decide his case according to Allah's Laws. My son was a laborer 
working for this person, and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and the people told 
me that my son should be stoned to death, but I offered one-hundred sheep and a slave girl as a 
ransom for him. Then I asked the religious learned people, and they told me that my son should be 
flogged with one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose 
Hand my soul is, I will judge you according to Allah's Laws. The sheep and the slave girl will be 
returned to you and your son will be flogged one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. And you, 
O Unais! Go to the wife of this man (and if she confesses), stone her to death." So Unais went in the 
morning and stoned her to death (after she had confessed).
Bukhari:6836 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he (the Prophet) was sitting, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give 
your verdict according to Allah's Laws (in our case)." Then his opponent got up and said, "He has told 
the truth, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Decide his case according to Allah's Laws. My son was a laborer 
working for this person, and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and the people told 
me that my son should be stoned to death, but I offered one-hundred sheep and a slave girl as a 
ransom for him. Then I asked the religious learned people, and they told me that my son should be 
flogged with one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose 
Hand my soul is, I will judge you according to Allah's Laws. The sheep and the slave girl will be 
returned to you and your son will be flogged one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. And you, 
O Unais! Go to the wife of this man (and if she confesses), stone her to death." So Unais went in the 
morning and stoned her to death (after she had confessed).
Bukhari:6837 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:The verdict of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sought about an unmarried slave girl guilty of illegal intercourse. 
He replied, "If she commits illegal sexual intercourse, then flog her (fifty stripes), and if she commits 
illegal sexual intercourse (after that for the second time), then flog her (fifty stripes), and if she 
commits illegal sexual intercourse (for the third time), then flog her (fifty stripes) and sell her for even 
a hair rope." Ibn Shihab said, "I am not sure whether the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that she be sold after the 
third or fourth time of committing illegal intercourse."
Bukhari:6838 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:The verdict of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sought about an unmarried slave girl guilty of illegal intercourse. 
He replied, "If she commits illegal sexual intercourse, then flog her (fifty stripes), and if she commits 
illegal sexual intercourse (after that for the second time), then flog her (fifty stripes), and if she 
commits illegal sexual intercourse (for the third time), then flog her (fifty stripes) and sell her for even 
a hair rope." Ibn Shihab said, "I am not sure whether the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that she be sold after the 
third or fourth time of committing illegal intercourse."
Bukhari:6839 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a lady slave commits illegal sexual intercourse and she is proved guilty of illegal 
sexual intercourse, then she should be flogged (fifty stripes) but she should not be admonished; and if 
she commits illegal sexual intercourse again, then she should be flogged again but should not be 
admonished; and if she commits illegal sexual intercourse for the third time, then she should be sold 
even for a hair rope."
Bukhari:6840 Narrated Ash-Shaibani:I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa about the Rajam (stoning somebody to death for committing illegal 
sexual intercourse). He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) carried out the penalty of Rajam," I asked, "Was that 
before or after the revelation of Surat-an-Nur?" He replied, "I do not know."
Bukhari:6841 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The jews came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and mentioned to him that a man and a lady among them had 
committed illegal sexual intercourse. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "What do you find in the Torah 
regarding the Rajam?" They replied, "We only disgrace and flog them with stripes." `Abdullah bin 
Salam said to them, 'You have told a lie the penalty of Rajam is in the Torah.' They brought the Torah 
and opened it. One of them put his hand over the verse of the Rajam and read what was before and 
after it. `Abdullah bin Salam said to him, "Lift up your hand." Where he lifted it there appeared the 
verse of the Rajam. So they said, "O Muhammad! He has said the truth, the verse of the Rajam is in it 
(Torah)." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that the two persons (guilty of illegal sexual intercourse) be 
stoned to death, and so they were stoned, and I saw the man bending over the woman so as to protect 
her from the stones.
Bukhari:6842 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men had a dispute in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). One of them said, "Judge us according to 
Allah's Laws." The other who was more wise said, "Yes, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), judge us according to 
Allah's Laws and allow me to speak (first)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, 'Speak " He said, "My son was a 
laborer for this man, and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and the people told me 
that my son should be stoned to death, but I have given one-hundred sheep and a slave girl as a 
ransom (expiation) for my son's sin. Then I asked the religious learned people (about It), and they told 
me that my son should he flogged one-hundred stripes and should be exiled for one year, and only the 
wife of this man should be stoned to death " Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, 
I will judge you according to Allah's Laws: O man, as for your sheep and slave girl, they are to be 
returned to you." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) had the man's son flogged one hundred stripes and exiled for one 
year, and ordered Unais Al-Aslami to go to the wife of the other man, and if she confessed, stone her 
to death. She confessed and was stoned to death.
Bukhari:6843 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men had a dispute in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). One of them said, "Judge us according to 
Allah's Laws." The other who was more wise said, "Yes, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), judge us according to 
Allah's Laws and allow me to speak (first)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, 'Speak " He said, "My son was a 
laborer for this man, and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and the people told me 
that my son should be stoned to death, but I have given one-hundred sheep and a slave girl as a 
ransom (expiation) for my son's sin. Then I asked the religious learned people (about It), and they told 
me that my son should he flogged one-hundred stripes and should be exiled for one year, and only the 
wife of this man should be stoned to death " Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, 
I will judge you according to Allah's Laws: O man, as for your sheep and slave girl, they are to be 
returned to you." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) had the man's son flogged one hundred stripes and exiled for one 
year, and ordered Unais Al-Aslami to go to the wife of the other man, and if she confessed, stone her 
to death. She confessed and was stoned to death.
Bukhari:6844 Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr came to me while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sleeping with his head on my thigh. Abu Bakr said 
(to me), "You have detained Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people, and there is no water in this place." So he 
admonished me and struck my flanks with his hand, and nothing could stop me from moving except 
the reclining of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (on my thigh), and then Allah revealed the Divine Verse of 
Tayammum.
Bukhari:6845 Narrated Aisha:Abu Bakr came to towards me and struck me violently with his fist and said, "You have detained the 
people because of your necklace." But I remained motionless as if I was dead lest I should awake 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) although that hit was very painful.
Bukhari:6846 Narrated Al-Mughira:Sa`d bin Ubada said, "If I found a man with my wife, I would kill him with the sharp side of my 
sword." When the Prophet (ﷺ) heard that he said, "Do you wonder at Sa`d's sense of ghira (self-respect)? 
Verily, I have more sense of ghira than Sa`d, and Allah has more sense of ghira than I."
Bukhari:6847 Narrated Abu Huraira:A bedouin came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "My wife has delivered a black child." The Prophet (ﷺ) said 
to him, "Have you camels?" He replied, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What color are they?" He replied, 
"They are red." The Prophet (ﷺ) further asked, "Are any of them gray in color?" He replied, "Yes." The 
Prophet asked him, "Whence did that grayness come?" He said, "I thing it descended from the camel's 
ancestors." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Therefore, this child of yours has most probably inherited 
the color from his ancestors."
Bukhari:6848 Narrated Abu Burda:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "Nobody should be flogged more than ten stripes except if he is guilty of a 
crime, the legal punishment of which is assigned by Allah."
Bukhari:6849 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Jabir:On the authority of others, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No Punishment exceeds the flogging of the ten 
stripes, except if one is guilty of a crime necessitating a legal punishment prescribed by Allah."
Bukhari:6850 Narrated Abu Burda Al-Ansari:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not flog anyone more than ten stripes except if he is involved in a 
crime necessitating Allah's legal Punishment."
Bukhari:6851 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal (fasting continuously for more than one day without taking any 
meals). A man from the Muslims said, "But you do Al-Wisal, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I 
said, "Who among you is similar to me? I sleep and my Lord makes me eat and drink." When the 
people refused to give up Al-Wisal, the Prophet (ﷺ) fasted along with them for one day, and did not break 
his fast but continued his fast for another day, and when they saw the crescent, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If 
the crescent had not appeared, I would have made you continue your fast (for a third day)," as if he 
wanted to punish them for they had refused to give up Al-Wisal.
Bukhari:6852 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Those people who used to buy foodstuff at random (without weighing or measuring it) were beaten in 
the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) if they sold it at the very place where they had bought it, till they 
carried it to their dwelling places.
Bukhari:6853 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never took revenge for his own self in any matter presented to him till Allah's limits 
were exceeded, in which case he would take revenge for Allah's sake.
Bukhari:6854 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I witnessed the case of Lian (the case of a man who charged his wife for committing illegal sexual 
intercourse when I was fifteen years old. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that they be divorced, and the husband 
said, "If I kept her, I would be a liar." I remember that Az-Zubair also said, "(It was said) that if that 
woman brought forth the child with such-and-such description, her husband would prove truthful, but 
if she brought it with such-and-such description looking like a Wahra (a red insect), he would prove 
untruthful." I heard Az-Zubair also saying, "Finally she gave birth to a child of description which her 
husband disliked .
Bukhari:6855 Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:Ibn `Abbas mentioned the couple who had taken the oath of Lian. `Abdullah bin Shaddad said (to 
him), "Was this woman about whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If I were ever to stone to death any woman 
without witnesses. (I would have stoned that woman to death)?' Ibn `Abbas replied," No, that lady 
exposed herself (by her suspicious behavior).
Bukhari:6856 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Lian was mentioned in the presence of the Prophet, `Asim bin Adi said a statement about it, and when 
he left, a man from his tribe came to him complaining that he had seen a man with his wife. `Asim 
said, "I have been put to trial only because of my statement." So he took the man to the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
the man told him about the incident. The man (husband) was of yellow complexion, thin, and of lank 
hair, while the man whom he had accused of having been with his wife, was reddish brown with fat 
thick legs and fat body. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Reveal the truth." Later on the lady delivered a 
child resembling the man whom the husband had accused of having been with her. So the Prophet (ﷺ) 
made them take the oath of Lian. A man said to Ibn `Abbas in the gathering, "Was that the same lady 
about whom the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I were to stone any lady (for committing illegal sexual intercourse) 
to death without witnesses, I would have stoned that lade to death?" Ibn `Abbas said, "No, that was 
another lady who used to behave in such a suspicious way among the Muslims that one might accuse 
her of committing illegal sexual intercourse."
Bukhari:6857 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Avoid the seven great destructive sins." They (the people!) asked, "O Allah's 
Apostle! What are they?" He said, "To join partners in worship with Allah; to practice sorcery; to kill 
the life which Allah has forbidden except for a just cause (according to Islamic law); to eat up usury 
(Riba), to eat up the property of an orphan; to give one's back to the enemy and fleeing from the 
battle-field at the time of fighting and to accuse chaste women who never even think of anything 
touching chastity and are good believers."
Bukhari:6858 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet) saying, "If somebody slanders his slave and the slave is free from 
what he says, he will be flogged on the Day of Resurrection unless the slave is really as he has 
described him."
Bukhari:6859 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I beseech you to judge us according to Allah's Laws." Then his opponent who was wiser than he, got up and said, "He has spoken the truth. So judge us according to Allah's Laws and please allow me (to speak), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Speak." He said, "My son was a laborer for the family of this man and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and I gave one-hundred sheep and a slave as a ransom (for my son), but I asked the religious learned people (regarding this case), and they informed me that my son should be flogged onehundred stripes, and be exiled for one year, and the wife of this man should be stoned (to death)."The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I will Judge you (in this case) according to Allah's Laws. The one-hundred (sheep) and the slave shall be returned to you and your son shall be flogged one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. And O Unais! Go in the morning to the wife of this man and ask her, and if she confesses, stone her to death." She confessed and he stoned her to death.
Bukhari:6860 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I beseech you to judge us according to Allah's Laws." Then his opponent who was wiser than he, got up and said, "He has spoken the truth. So judge us according to Allah's Laws and please allow me (to speak), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Speak." He said, "My son was a laborer for the family of this man and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife, and I gave one-hundred sheep and a slave as a ransom (for my son), but I asked the religious learned people (regarding this case), and they informed me that my son should be flogged onehundred stripes, and be exiled for one year, and the wife of this man should be stoned (to death)."The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I will Judge you (in this case) according to Allah's Laws. The one-hundred (sheep) and the slave shall be returned to you and your son shall be flogged one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. And O Unais! Go in the morning to the wife of this man and ask her, and if she confesses, stone her to death." She confessed and he stoned her to death.
Bukhari:6861 Narrated `Abdullah:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which sin is the greatest in Allah's Sight?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To set 
up a rival unto Allah though He Alone created you . " The man said, "What is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "To kill your son lest he should share your food with you." The man said, "What is next?" The 
Prophet said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor." So Allah 
revealed in confirmation of this narration:-- 
'And those who invoke not with Allah, any other god. Nor kill, such life as Allah has forbidden except 
for just cause nor commit illegal sexual intercourse. And whoever does this shall receive the 
punishment.' (25.68)
Bukhari:6862 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer remains at liberty regarding his religion unless he kills 
somebody unlawfully."
Bukhari:6863 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:One of the evil deeds with bad consequence from which there is no escape for the one who is involved 
in it is to kill someone unlawfully.
Bukhari:6864 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The first cases to be decided among the people (on the Day of Resurrection) will 
be those of blood-shed."
Bukhari:6865 Narrated Al-Miqdad bin `Amr Al-Kindi:An ally of Bani Zuhra who took part in the battle of Badr with the Prophet, that he said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! If I meet an unbeliever and we have a fight, and he strikes my hand with the sword and cuts 
it off, and then takes refuge from me under a tree, and says, 'I have surrendered to Allah (i.e. 
embraced Islam),' may I kill him after he has said so?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not kill him." Al- 
Miqdad said, "But O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He had chopped off one of my hands and he said that after he 
had cut it off. May I kill him?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said. "Do not kill him for if you kill him, he would be in 
the position in which you had been before you kill him, and you would be in the position in which he 
was before he said the sentence." The Prophet (ﷺ) also said to Al-Miqdad, "If a faithful believer conceals 
his faith (Islam) from the disbelievers, and then when he declares his Islam, you kill him, (you will be 
sinful). Remember that you were also concealing your faith (Islam) at Mecca before."
Bukhari:6866 Narrated Al-Miqdad bin `Amr Al-Kindi:An ally of Bani Zuhra who took part in the battle of Badr with the Prophet, that he said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! If I meet an unbeliever and we have a fight, and he strikes my hand with the sword and cuts 
it off, and then takes refuge from me under a tree, and says, 'I have surrendered to Allah (i.e. 
embraced Islam),' may I kill him after he has said so?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not kill him." Al- 
Miqdad said, "But O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He had chopped off one of my hands and he said that after he 
had cut it off. May I kill him?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said. "Do not kill him for if you kill him, he would be in 
the position in which you had been before you kill him, and you would be in the position in which he 
was before he said the sentence." The Prophet (ﷺ) also said to Al-Miqdad, "If a faithful believer conceals 
his faith (Islam) from the disbelievers, and then when he declares his Islam, you kill him, (you will be 
sinful). Remember that you were also concealing your faith (Islam) at Mecca before."
Bukhari:6867 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No human being is killed unjustly, but a part of responsibility for the crime is laid 
on the first son of Adam who invented the tradition of killing (murdering) on the earth. (It is said that 
he was Qabil).
Bukhari:6868 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "After me (i.e. after my death), do not become disbelievers, by striking (cutting) the 
necks of one another.
Bukhari:6869 Narrated Abu Zur'a bin `Amr bin Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said during Hajjat-al-Wada`, "Let the people be quiet and listen to me. After me, do not 
become disbelievers, by striking (cutting) the necks of one another."
Bukhari:6870 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Ka`ba'ir (the biggest sins) are: To join others (as partners) in worship with 
Allah, to be undutiful to one's parents," or said, "to take a false oath." (The sub-narrator, Shu`ba is not 
sure) Mu`adh said: Shu`ba said, "Al-Ka`ba'ir (the biggest sins) are: (1) Joining others as partners in 
worship with Allah, (2) to take a false oath (3) and to be undutiful to one's parents," or said, "to 
murder (someone unlawfully).
Bukhari:6871 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The biggest of Al-Ka`ba'ir (the great sins) are (1) to join others as partners in 
worship with Allah, (2) to murder a human being, (3) to be undutiful to one's parents (4) and to make 
a false statement," or said, "to give a false witness."
Bukhari:6872 Narrated Usama bin Zaid bin Haritha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent us (to fight) against Al-Huraqa (one of the sub-tribes) of Juhaina. We reached 
those people in the morning and defeated them. A man from the Ansar and I chased one of their men 
and when we attacked him, he said, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah." The Ansari 
refrained from killing him but I stabbed him with my spear till I killed him. When we reached 
(Medina), this news reached the Prophet. He said to me, "O Usama! You killed him after he had said, 
'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah?"' I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He said so in order to 
save himself." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You killed him after he had said, 'None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah." The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on repeating that statement till I wished I had not been a 
Muslim before that day.
Bukhari:6873 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samat:I was among those Naqibs (selected leaders) who gave the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). We 
gave the oath of allegiance, that we would not join partners in worship besides Allah, would not steal, 
would not commit illegal sexual intercourse, would not kill a life which Allah has forbidden, would 
not commit robbery, would not disobey (Allah and His Apostle), and if we fulfilled this pledge we 
would have Paradise, but if we committed any one of these (sins), then our case will be decided by 
Allah.
Bukhari:6874 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever carries arms against us, is not from us."
Bukhari:6875 Narrated Al-Ahnaf bin Qais:I went to help that man (i.e., `Ali), and on the way I met Abu Bakra who asked me, "Where are you 
going?" I replied, "I am going to help that man." He said, "Go back, for I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
saying, 'If two Muslims meet each other with their swords then (both) the killer and the killed one are 
in the (Hell) Fire.' I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is alright for the killer, but what about the killed one?' 
He said, 'The killed one was eager to kill his opponent."
Bukhari:6876 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A Jew crushed the head of a girl between two stones, and the girl was asked, "Who has done that to 
you, so-and-so or so and so?" (Some names were mentioned for her) till the name of that Jew was 
mentioned (whereupon she agreed). The Jew was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) kept on 
questioning him till he confessed, whereupon his head was crushed with stones.
Bukhari:6877 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A girl wearing ornaments, went out at Medina. Somebody struck her with a stone. She was brought to 
the Prophet (ﷺ) while she was still alive. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked her, "Did such-and-such a person strike 
you?" She raised her head, denying that. He asked her a second time, saying, "Did so-and-so strike 
you?" She raised her head, denying that. He said for the third time, "Did so-and-so strike you?" She 
lowered her head, agreeing. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then sent for the killer and killed him between two stones.
Bukhari:6878 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The blood of a Muslim who confesses that none has the right to be worshipped 
but Allah and that I am His Apostle, cannot be shed except in three cases: In Qisas for murder, a 
married person who commits illegal sexual intercourse and the one who reverts from Islam (apostate) 
and leaves the Muslims."
Bukhari:6879 Narrated Anas:A Jew killed a girl so that he may steal her ornaments. He struck her with a stone, and she was 
brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) while she was still alive. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked her, "Did such-and-such person 
strike you?" She gestured with her head, expressing denial. He asked her for the second time, and she 
again gestured with her head, expressing denial. When he asked her for the third time, she beckoned, 
"Yes." So the Prophet (ﷺ) killed him (the Jew) with two stones.
Bukhari:6880 Narrated Abu Huraira:In the year of the Conquest of Mecca, the tribe of Khuza`a killed a man from the tribe of Bam Laith in 
revenge for a killed person belonging to them in the Pre-lslamic Period of Ignorance. So Allah's 
Apostle got up saying, "Allah held back the (army having) elephants from Mecca, but He let His 
Apostle and the believers overpower the infidels (of Mecca). Beware! (Mecca is a sanctuary)! Verily! 
Fighting in Mecca was not permitted for anybody before me, nor will it be permitted for anybody after 
me; It was permitted for me only for a while (an hour or so) of that day. No doubt! It is at this moment 
a sanctuary; its thorny shrubs should not be uprooted; its trees should not be cut down; and its Luqata 
(fallen things) should not be picked up except by the one who would look for its owner. And if 
somebody is killed, his closest relative has the right to choose one of two things, i.e., either the Blood 
money or retaliation by having the killer killed." Then a man from Yemen, called Abu Shah, stood up 
and said, "Write that) for me, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Write 
that for Abu Shah." Then another man from Quraish got up, saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Except Al- 
Idhkhir (a special kind of grass) as we use it in our houses and for graves." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 
"Except Al-idhkkir."
Bukhari:6881 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:For the children of Israel the punishment for crime was Al-Qisas only (i.e., the law of equality in 
punishment) and the payment of Blood money was not permitted as an alternate. But Allah said to this 
nation (Muslims): 'O you who believe! Qisas is prescribed for you in case of murder, .....(up to) ...end 
of the Verse. (2.178) 
Ibn `Abbas added: Remission (forgiveness) in this Verse, means to accept the Blood-money in an 
intentional murder. Ibn `Abbas added: The Verse: 'Then the relatives should demand Blood-money in 
a reasonable manner.' (2.178) means that the demand should be reasonable and it is to be 
compensated with handsome gratitude.
Bukhari:6882 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most hated persons to Allah are three: (1) A person who deviates from the 
right conduct, i.e., an evil doer, in the Haram (sanctuaries of Mecca and Medina); (2) a person who 
seeks that the traditions of the Pre-lslamic Period of Ignorance, should remain in Islam (3) and a 
person who seeks to shed somebody's blood without any right."
Bukhari:6883 Narrated `Aisha:The pagans were defeated on the day (of the battle) of Uhud. Satan shouted among the people on the 
day of Uhud, "O Allah's worshippers! Beware of what is behind you!" So the front file of the army 
attacked the back files (mistaking them for the enemy) till they killed Al-Yaman. Hudhaifa (bin Al- 
Yaman) shouted, "My father!" My father! But they killed him. Hudhaifa said, "May Allah forgive 
you." (The narrator added: Some of the defeated pagans fled till they reached Taif.)
Bukhari:6884 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A Jew crushed the head of a girl between two stones. It was said to her. "Who has done this to you, 
such-and-such person, such-and-such person?" When the name of the Jew was mentioned, she nodded 
with her head, agreeing. So the Jew was brought and he confessed. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that his head 
be crushed with the stones. (Hammam said, "with two stones.")
Bukhari:6885 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) killed a Jew for killing a girl in order to take her ornaments.
Bukhari:6886 Narrated `Aisha:We poured medicine into the mouth of the Prophet (ﷺ) during his ailment. He said, "Don't pour medicine 
into my mouth." (We thought he said that) out of the aversion a patient usually has for medicines. 
When he improved and felt better he said, "There is none of you but will be forced to drink medicine, 
except Al-`Abbas, for he did not witness your deed."
Bukhari:6887 Narrated Abu Huraira:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the foremost 
(on the Day of Resurrection)." And added, "If someone is peeping (looking secretly) into your house 
without your permission, and you throw a stone at him and destroy his eyes, there will be no blame on 
you."
Bukhari:6888 Narrated Abu Huraira:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the foremost 
(on the Day of Resurrection)." And added, "If someone is peeping (looking secretly) into your house 
without your permission, and you throw a stone at him and destroy his eyes, there will be no blame on 
you."
Bukhari:6889 Narrated Yahya:Humaid said, "A man peeped into the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) aimed an arrow head at 
him to hit him." I asked, "Who told you that?" He said, "Anas bin Malik" (See Hadith No. 258 and 
259, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:6890 Narrated `Aisha:"When it was the day of (the battle of) Uhud, the pagans were defeated. Then Satan shouted, "O 
Allah's worshipers! Beware of what is behind you!" So the front files attacked the back files of the 
army. Hudhaifa looked, and behold, there was his father, Al-Yaman (being attacked) ! He shouted (to 
his companions), "O Allah's worshipers, my father, my father!" But by Allah, they did not stop till 
they killed him (i.e., Hudhaifa's father). Hudhaifa said, "May Allah forgive you." (`Urwa said, 
Hudhaifa continued asking Allah's Forgiveness for the killer of his father till he died.
Bukhari:6891 Narrated Salama:We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) to Khaibar. A man (from the companions) said, "O 'Amir! Let us hear 
some of your Huda (camel-driving songs.)" So he sang some of them (i.e. a lyric in harmony with the 
camels walk). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who is the driver (of these camels)?" They said, "Amir." The 
Prophet said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him !" The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Would 
that you let us enjoy his company longer!" Then 'Amir was killed the following morning. The people 
said, "The good deeds of 'Amir are lost as he has killed himself." I returned at the time while they 
were talking about that. I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Prophet! Let my father be sacrificed 
for you! The people claim that 'Amir's good deeds are lost." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever says so is a 
liar, for 'Amir will have a double reward as he exerted himself to obey Allah and fought in Allah's 
Cause. No other way of killing would have granted him greater reward."
Bukhari:6892 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:A man bit another man's hand and the latter pulled his hand out of his mouth by force, causing two of 
his incisors (teeth) to fall out. They submitted their case to the Prophet, who said, "One of you bit his 
brother as a male camel bites. (Go away), there is no Diya (Blood-money) for you."
Bukhari:6893 Narrated Ya`la:I went out in one of the Ghazwa and a man bit another man and as a result, an incisor tooth of the 
former was pulled out. The Prophet (ﷺ) cancelled the case.
Bukhari:6894 Narrated Anas:The daughter of An-Nadr slapped a girl and broke her incisor tooth. They (the relatives of that girl), 
came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he gave the order of Qisas (equality in punishment).
Bukhari:6895 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This and this are the same." He meant the little finger and the thumb.
Bukhari:6896 Ibn 'Umar said:A boy was assassinated. 'Umar said, "If all the people of San'a took part in the assassination I would kill them all."Al-Mughira bin Hakim said that his father said, "Four persons killed a boy, and 'Umar said (as above)."Abu Bakr, Ibn Az-Zubair, 'Ali and Suwaid bin Muqarrin gave the judgement of Al-Qisas (equality in punishment) in cases of slapping. And 'Umar carried out Al-Qisas for a strike with a stick. And 'Ali carried out Al-Qisas for three lashes with a whip. And Shuraih carried out for one last and for scratching.
Bukhari:6897 Narrated `Aisha:We poured medicine into the mouth of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during his illness, and he pointed out to us 
intending to say, "Don't pour medicine into my mouth." We thought that his refusal was out of the 
aversion a patient usually has for medicine. When he improved and felt a bit better he said (to us.) 
"Didn't I forbid you to pour medicine into my mouth?" We said, "We thought (you did so) because of 
the aversion, one usually have for medicine." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is none of you but will be 
forced to drink medicine, and I will watch you, except Al-`Abbas, for he did not witness this act of 
yours."
Bukhari:6898 Narrated Sahl bin Abi Hathma:(a man from the Ansar) that a number of people from his tribe went to Khaibar and dispersed, and 
then they found one of them murdered. They said to the people with whom the corpse had been found, 
"You have killed our companion!" Those people said, "Neither have we killed him, nor do we know 
his killer." The bereaved group went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We went to Khaibar 
and found one of us murdered." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the older among you come forward and 
speak." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, to them, "Bring your proof against the killer." They said "We have no 
proof." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then they (the defendants) will take an oath." They said, "We do not accept 
the oaths of the Jews." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not like that the Blood-money of the killed one be lost 
without compensation, so he paid one-hundred camels out of the camels of Zakat (to the relatives of 
the deceased) as Diya (Blood-money).
Bukhari:6899 Narrated Abu Qilaba:Once `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz sat on his throne in the courtyard of his house so that the people might 
gather before him. Then he admitted them and (when they came in), he said, "What do you think of 
Al-Qasama?" They said, "We say that it is lawful to depend on Al-Qasama in Qisas, as the previous 
Muslim Caliphs carried out Qisas depending on it." Then he said to me, "O Abu Qilaba! What do you 
say about it?" He let me appear before the people and I said, "O Chief of the Believers! You have the 
chiefs of the army staff and the nobles of the Arabs. If fifty of them testified that a married man had 
committed illegal sexual intercourse in Damascus but they had not seen him (doing so), would you 
stone him?" He said, "No." I said, "If fifty of them testified that a man had committed theft in Hums, 
would you cut off his hand though they did not see him?" He replied, "No." 
I said, "By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never killed anyone except in one of the following three situations: 
(1) A person who killed somebody unjustly, was killed (in Qisas,) (2) a married person who 
committed illegal sexual intercourse and (3) a man who fought against Allah and His Apostle and 
deserted Islam and became an apostate." 
Then the people said, "Didn't Anas bin Malik narrate that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cut off the hands of the 
thieves, branded their eyes and then, threw them in the sun?" 
I said, "I shall tell you the narration of Anas. Anas said: "Eight persons from the tribe of `Ukl came to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and gave the Pledge of allegiance for Islam (became Muslim). The climate of the 
place (Medina) did not suit them, so they became sick and complained about that to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
He said (to them ), "Won't you go out with the shepherd of our camels and drink of the camels' milk 
and urine (as medicine)?" They said, "Yes." So they went out and drank the camels' milk and urine, 
and after they became healthy, they killed the shepherd of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and took away all the 
camels. This news reached Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , so he sent (men) to follow their traces and they were 
captured and brought (to the Prophet). He then ordered to cut their hands and feet, and their eyes were 
branded with heated pieces of iron, and then he threw them in the sun till they died." I said, "What can 
be worse than what those people did? They deserted Islam, committed murder and theft." 
Then 'Anbasa bin Sa`id said, "By Allah, I never heard a narration like this of today." I said, "O 
'Anbasa! You deny my narration?" 'Anbasa said, "No, but you have related the narration in the way it 
should be related. By Allah, these people are in welfare as long as this Sheikh (Abu Qilaba) is among 
them." I added, "Indeed in this event there has been a tradition set by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The narrator 
added: Some Ansari people came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and discussed some matters with him, a man from 
amongst them went out and was murdered. Those people went out after him, and behold, their 
companion was swimming in blood. They returned to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said to him, "O Allah's 
Apostle, we have found our companion who had talked with us and gone out before us, swimming in 
blood (killed)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out and asked them, "Whom do you suspect or whom do you 
think has killed him?" They said, "We think that the Jews have killed him." The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for the 
Jews and asked them, "Did you kill this (person)?" They replied, "No." He asked the Al-Ansars, "Do 
you agree that I let fifty Jews take an oath that they have not killed him?" They said, "It matters little 
for the Jews to kill us all and then take false oaths." He said, "Then would you like to receive the Diya 
after fifty of you have taken an oath (that the Jews have killed your man)?" They said, "We will not 
take the oath." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) himself paid them the Diya (Blood-money)." The narrator added, 
"The tribe of Hudhail repudiated one of their men (for his evil conduct) in the Pre-lslamic period of 
Ignorance. 
Then, at a place called Al-Batha' (near Mecca), the man attacked a Yemenite family at night to steal 
from them, but a. man from the family noticed him and struck him with his sword and killed him. The 
tribe of Hudhail came and captured the Yemenite and brought him to `Umar during the Hajj season 
and said, "He has killed our companion." The Yemenite said, "But these people had repudiated him 
(i.e., their companion)." `Umar said, "Let fifty persons of Hudhail swear that they had not repudiated 
him." So forty-nine of them took the oath and then a person belonging to them, came from Sham and 
they requested him to swear similarly, but he paid one-thousand Dirhams instead of taking the oath. 
They called another man instead of him and the new man shook hands with the brother of the 
deceased. Some people said, "We and those fifty men who had taken false oaths (Al-Qasama) set out, 
and when they reached a place called Nakhlah, it started raining so they entered a cave in the 
mountain, and the cave collapsed on those fifty men who took the false oath, and all of them died 
except the two persons who had shaken hands with each other. They escaped death but a stone fell on 
the leg of the brother of the deceased and broke it, whereupon he survived for one year and then died." 
I further said, "`Abdul Malik bin Marwan sentenced a man to death in Qisas (equality in punishment) 
for murder, basing his judgment on Al-Qasama, but later on he regretted that judgment and ordered 
that the names of the fifty persons who had taken the oath (Al-Qasama), be erased from the register, 
and he exiled them in Sham."
Bukhari:6900 Narrated Anas:A man peeped into one of the dwelling places of the Prophet. The 
     Prophet got up and aimed a sharp-edged arrow head (or wooden stick) at
     him to poke him stealthily.
Bukhari:6901 Narrated Sahl bin Sa'd As-Sa'idi:A man peeped through a hole in the door of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)'s house, 
     and at that time, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a Midri (an iron comb or bar) 
     with which he was rubbing his head. So when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him, 
     he said (to him), "If I had been sure that you were looking at me 
     (through the door), I would have poked your eye with this (sharp iron 
     bar)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "The asking for permission to enter has 
     been enjoined so that one may not look unlawfully (at what there is in
     the house without the permission of its people)."
Bukhari:6902 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abul Qasim said, "If any person peeps at you without your permission and you poke him with a stick 
and injure his eye, you will not be blamed."
Bukhari:6903 Narrated Ash-Shu`bi:I heard Abu Juhaifa saying, "I asked `Ali 'Have you got any Divine literature apart from the Qur'an?' 
(Once he said...apart from what the people have?) `Ali replied, 'By Him Who made the grain split 
(germinate) and created the soul, we have nothing except what is in the Qur'an and the ability (gift) of 
understanding Allah's Book which He may endow a man with and we have what is written in this 
paper.' I asked, 'What is written in this paper?' He replied, 'Al-`Aql (the regulation of Diya), about the 
ransom of captives, and the Judgment that a Muslim should not be killed in Qisas (equality in 
punishment) for killing a disbeliever." (See Hadith No. 283,Vol. 4)
Bukhari:6904 Narrated Abu Huraira:Two women from the tribe of Hudhail (fought with each other) and one of them threw (a stone at) the 
other, causing her to have a miscarriage and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave his verdict that the killer (of the 
fetus) should give a male or female slave (as a Diya).
Bukhari:6905 Narrated Hisham's father from Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba:'Umar consulted the companions about the case of a woman's abortion 
     (caused by somebody else). Al-Mughira said: The Prophet (ﷺ) gave the 
     verdict that a male or female slave should be given (as a Diya). Then 
     Muhammad bin Maslama testified that he had witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     giving such a verdict.
Bukhari:6906 Narrated Hisham's father from Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba:'Umar consulted the companions about the case of a woman's abortion 
     (caused by somebody else). Al-Mughira said: The Prophet (ﷺ) gave the 
     verdict that a male or female slave should be given (as a Diya). Then 
     Muhammad bin Maslama testified that he had witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     giving such a verdict.
Bukhari:6907 Narrated Hisham's father:'Umar asked the people, "Who heard the Prophet (ﷺ) giving his verdict 
     regarding abortions?" Al-Mughira said, "I heard him judging that a 
     male or female slave should be given (as a Diya)." 'Umar said, 
     "Present a witness to testify your statement." Muhammad bin Maslama 
     said, "I testify that the Prophet (ﷺ) gave such a judgment."
Bukhari:6908 Narrated Hisham's father:'Umar asked the people, "Who heard the Prophet (ﷺ) giving his verdict 
     regarding abortions?" Al-Mughira said, "I heard him judging that a 
     male or female slave should be given (as a Diya)." 'Umar said, 
     "Present a witness to testify your statement." Muhammad bin Maslama 
     said, "I testify that the Prophet (ﷺ) gave such a judgment."
Bukhari:6909 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave a verdict regarding an aborted fetus of a woman from Bani Lihyan that the killer 
(of the fetus) should give a male or female slave (as a Diya) but the woman who was required to give 
the slave, died, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the verdict that her inheritance be given to her children and 
her husband and the Diya be paid by her 'Asaba.
Bukhari:6910 Narrated Abu Huraira:Two women from Hudhail fought with each other and one of them hit the other with a stone that 
killed her and what was in her womb. The relatives of the killer and the relatives of the victim 
submitted their case to the Prophet (ﷺ) who judged that the Diya for the fetus was a male or female slave, 
and the Diya for the killed woman was to be paid by the 'Asaba (near relatives) of the killer.
Bukhari:6911 Narrated `Abdul-`Aziz:Anas said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, Abu Talha took hold of my hand and brought 
me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Anas is an intelligent boy, so let him serve you." 
Anas added, "So I served the Prophet (ﷺ) L at home and on journeys; by Allah, he never said to me for 
anything which I did: Why have you done this like this or, for anything which I did not do: 'Why have 
you not done this like this?"
Bukhari:6912 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no Diya for persons killed by animals or for the one who has been 
killed accidentally by falling into a well or for the one killed in a mine. And one-fifth of Rikaz 
(treasures buried before the Islamic era) is to be given to the state."
Bukhari:6913 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Diya for a person injured or killed by an animal (going about without 
somebody to control it) and similarly, there is no Diya for the one who falls and dies in a well, and 
also the one who dies in a mine. As regards the Ar-Rikaz (buried wealth), one-fifth thereof is for the 
state."
Bukhari:6914 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever killed a Mu'ahid (a person who is granted the pledge of protection by the 
Muslims) shall not smell the fragrance of Paradise though its fragrance can be smelt at a distance of 
forty years (of traveling).
Bukhari:6915 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:I asked `Ali "Do you have anything Divine literature besides what is in the Qur'an?" Or, as Uyaina 
once said, "Apart from what the people have?" `Ali said, "By Him Who made the grain split 
(germinate) and created the soul, we have nothing except what is in the Qur'an and the ability (gift) of 
understanding Allah's Book which He may endow a man, with and what is written in this sheet of 
paper." I asked, "What is on this paper?" He replied, "The legal regulations of Diya (Blood-money) 
and the (ransom for) releasing of the captives, and the judgment that no Muslim should be killed in 
Qisas (equality in punishment) for killing a Kafir (disbeliever).
Bukhari:6916 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not prefer some prophets to others."
Bukhari:6917 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A Jew whose face had been slapped (by someone), came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! A 
man from your Ansari companions slapped me. " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Call him". They called him and 
the Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Why did you slap his face?" He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! While I was passing 
by the Jews, I heard him saying, 'By Him Who chose Moses above all the human beings.' I said 
(protestingly), 'Even above Muhammad?' So I became furious and slapped him." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Do not give me preference to other prophets, for the people will become unconscious on the Day of 
Resurrection and I will be the first to gain conscious, and behold, I will Find Moses holding one of the 
pillars of the Throne (of Allah). Then I will not know whether he has become conscious before me or 
he has been exempted because of his unconsciousness at the mountain (during his worldly life) which 
he received."
Bukhari:6918 Narrated `Abdullah:When the Verse: 'It is those who believe and confuse not their belief with wrong (i.e., worshipping 
others besides Allah): (6.82) was revealed, it became very hard on the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
they said, "Who among us has not confused his belief with wrong (oppression)?" On that, Allah's 
Apostle said, "This is not meant (by the Verse). Don't you listen to Luqman's statement: 'Verily! 
Joining others in worship with Allah is a great wrong indeed.' (31.13)
Bukhari:6919 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet. said, "The biggest of the great sins are: To join others in worship with Allah, to be 
undutiful to one's parents, and to give a false witness." He repeated it thrice, or said, "....a false 
statement," and kept on repeating that warning till we wished he would stop saying it. (See Hadith 
No.7, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:6920 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What are the biggest sins?: The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "To join others in worship with Allah." The bedouin said, "What is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To 
be undutiful to one's parents." The bedouin said "What is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said "To take an oath 
'Al-Ghamus." The bedouin said, "What is an oath 'Al-Ghamus'?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The false oath 
through which one deprives a Muslim of his property (unjustly).
Bukhari:6921 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we be punished for what we did in the Prelslamic Period of 
ignorance?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does good in Islam will not be punished for what he did in 
the Pre-lslamic Period of ignorance and whoever does evil in Islam will be punished for his former 
and later (bad deeds).
Bukhari:6922 Narrated `Ikrima:Some Zanadiqa (atheists) were brought to `Ali and he burnt them. The news of this event, reached Ibn 
`Abbas who said, "If I had been in his place, I would not have burnt them, as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade 
it, saying, 'Do not punish anybody with Allah's punishment (fire).' I would have killed them according 
to the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), 'Whoever changed his Islamic religion, then kill him.'"
Bukhari:6923 Narrated Abu Burda:Abu Musa said, "I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) along with two men (from the tribe) of Ash`ariyin, one on my 
right and the other on my left, while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was brushing his teeth (with a Siwak), and both 
men asked him for some employment. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O Abu Musa (O `Abdullah bin Qais!).' I 
said, 'By Him Who sent you with the Truth, these two men did not tell me what was in their hearts and 
I did not feel (realize) that they were seeking employment.' As if I were looking now at his Siwak 
being drawn to a corner under his lips, and he said, 'We never (or, we do not) appoint for our affairs 
anyone who seeks to be employed. But O Abu Musa! (or `Abdullah bin Qais!) Go to Yemen.'" The 
Prophet then sent Mu`adh bin Jabal after him and when Mu`adh reached him, he spread out a cushion 
for him and requested him to get down (and sit on the cushion). Behold: There was a fettered man 
beside Abu Muisa. Mu`adh asked, "Who is this (man)?" Abu Muisa said, "He was a Jew and became a 
Muslim and then reverted back to Judaism." Then Abu Muisa requested Mu`adh to sit down but 
Mu`adh said, "I will not sit down till he has been killed. This is the judgment of Allah and His Apostle 
(for such cases) and repeated it thrice. Then Abu Musa ordered that the man be killed, and he was 
killed. Abu Musa added, "Then we discussed the night prayers and one of us said, 'I pray and sleep, 
and I hope that Allah will reward me for my sleep as well as for my prayers.'"
Bukhari:6924 Narrated Abu Huraira:When the Prophet (ﷺ) died and Abu Bakr became his successor and some of the Arabs reverted to 
disbelief, `Umar said, "O Abu Bakr! How can you fight these people although Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I 
have been ordered to fight the people till they say: 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, 
'and whoever said, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah', Allah will save his property and 
his life from me, unless (he does something for which he receives legal punishment) justly, and his 
account will be with Allah?' "Abu Bakr said, "By Allah! I will fight whoever differentiates between 
prayers and Zakat as Zakat is the right to be taken from property (according to Allah's Orders). By 
Allah! If they refused to pay me even a kid they used to pay to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I would fight with 
them for withholding it." `Umar said, "By Allah: It was nothing, but I noticed that Allah opened Abu 
Bakr's chest towards the decision to fight, therefore I realized that his decision was right."
Bukhari:6925 Narrated Abu Huraira:When the Prophet (ﷺ) died and Abu Bakr became his successor and some of the Arabs reverted to 
disbelief, `Umar said, "O Abu Bakr! How can you fight these people although Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I 
have been ordered to fight the people till they say: 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, 
'and whoever said, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah', Allah will save his property and 
his life from me, unless (he does something for which he receives legal punishment) justly, and his 
account will be with Allah?' "Abu Bakr said, "By Allah! I will fight whoever differentiates between 
prayers and Zakat as Zakat is the right to be taken from property (according to Allah's Orders). By 
Allah! If they refused to pay me even a kid they used to pay to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I would fight with 
them for withholding it." `Umar said, "By Allah: It was nothing, but I noticed that Allah opened Abu 
Bakr's chest towards the decision to fight, therefore I realized that his decision was right."
Bukhari:6926 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A Jew passed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "As-Samu 'Alaika." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said in reply, "We 
'Alaika." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said to his companions, "Do you know what he (the Jew) has said? He 
said, 'As-Samu 'Alaika.'" They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we kill him?" The Prophet, said, "No. 
When the people of the Book greet you, say: 'Wa 'Alaikum.'"
Bukhari:6927 Narrated `Aisha:A group of Jews asked permission to visit the Prophet (and when they were admitted) they said, "As- 
Samu 'Alaika (Death be upon you)." I said (to them), "But death and the curse of Allah be upon you!" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Aisha! Allah is kind and lenient and likes that one should be kind and lenient in 
all matters." I said, "Haven't you heard what they said?" He said, "I said (to them), 'Wa 'Alaikum (and 
upon you).
Bukhari:6928 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Jews greet anyone of you they say: 'Sam'Alaika (death be upon you); 
so you should say; 'Wa 'Alaika (and upon you).'"
Bukhari:6929 Narrated `Abdullah:As if I am looking at the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was speaking about one of the prophets whose people have 
beaten and wounded him, and he was wiping the blood off his face and saying, "O Lord! Forgive my, 
people as they do not know."
Bukhari:6930 Narrated `Ali:Whenever I tell you a narration from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), by Allah, I would rather fall down from the sky 
than ascribe a false statement to him, but if I tell you something between me and you (not a Hadith) 
then it was indeed a trick (i.e., I may say things just to cheat my enemy). No doubt I heard Allah's 
Apostle saying, "During the last days there will appear some young foolish people who will say the 
best words but their faith will not go beyond their throats (i.e. they will have no faith) and will go out 
from (leave) their religion as an arrow goes out of the game. So, where-ever you find them, kill them, 
for who-ever kills them shall have reward on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:6931 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Yasar:That they visited Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and asked him about Al-Harauriyya, a special unorthodox 
religious sect, "Did you hear the Prophet (ﷺ) saying anything about them?" Abu Sa`id said, "I do not 
know what Al-Harauriyya is, but I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will appear in this nation---- he 
did not say: From this nation ---- a group of people so pious apparently that you will consider your 
prayers inferior to their prayers, but they will recite the Qur'an, the teachings of which will not go 
beyond their throats and will go out of their religion as an arrow darts through the game, whereupon 
the archer may look at his arrow, its Nasl at its Risaf and its Fuqa to see whether it is blood-stained or 
not (i.e. they will have not even a trace of Islam in them).
Bukhari:6932 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Regarding Al-Harauriyya: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They will go out of Islam as an arrow darts out of the 
game's body.'
Bukhari:6933 Narrated Abu Sa`id:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was distributing (something, `Abdullah bin Dhil Khawaisira at-Tamimi came and 
said, "Be just, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Woe to you ! Who would be just if I were not?" 
`Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "Allow me to cut off his neck ! " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " Leave him, for he 
has companions, and if you compare your prayers with their prayers and your fasting with theirs, you 
will look down upon your prayers and fasting, in comparison to theirs. Yet they will go out of the 
religion as an arrow darts through the game's body in which case, if the Qudhadh of the arrow is 
examined, nothing will be found on it, and when its Nasl is examined, nothing will be found on it; and 
then its Nadiyi is examined, nothing will be found on it. The arrow has been too fast to be smeared by 
dung and blood. The sign by which these people will be recognized will be a man whose one hand (or 
breast) will be like the breast of a woman (or like a moving piece of flesh). These people will appear 
when there will be differences among the people (Muslims)." Abu Sa`id added: I testify that I heard 
this from the Prophet (ﷺ) and also testify that `Ali killed those people while I was with him. The man with 
the description given by the Prophet (ﷺ) was brought to `Ali. The following Verses were revealed in 
connection with that very person (i.e., `Abdullah bin Dhil-Khawaisira at-Tarnimi): 'And among them 
are men who accuse you (O Muhammad) in the matter of (the distribution of) the alms.' (9.58)
Bukhari:6934 Narrated Yusair bin `Amr:I asked Sahl bin Hunaif, "Did you hear the Prophet (ﷺ) saying anything about Al-Khawarij?" He said, "I 
heard him saying while pointing his hand towards Iraq. "There will appear in it (i.e, Iraq) some people 
who will recite the Qur'an but it will not go beyond their throats, and they will go out from (leave) 
Islam as an arrow darts through the game's body.' "
Bukhari:6935 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till two (huge) groups fight against each other, 
their claim being one and the same."
Bukhari:6936 'Umar bin Al-Khattab said:I heard Hisham bin Al-Hakim reciting Surat Al-Furqan during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I listened to his recitation and noticed that he recited it in several different ways which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not taught me. So  I was about to jump over him during his Salat (prayer) but I waited till he finished his Salat (prayer) whereupon I put, either his upper garment or my upper garment around his neck and seized him by it and asked him, "Who has taught you this Surah?" He replied: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has taught it to me." I said (to him), "You have told a lie! By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has taught me this Surah which I have heard you reciting." So I dragged him to the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I said: "O Allah's Messenger I have heard this man reciting Surat Al-Furqan in a way in which you have not taught me, and you did teach me Surah Al-Furqan." On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O 'Umar, release him! Recite, O Hisham". So Hisham recited before him in the way as I heard him reciting. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It has been revealed like this." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite, O 'Umar" So recited it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has been revealed like this." And then he added, "This Qur'an has been revealed to be recited in seven different ways, so recite it whichever way is easier for you."
Bukhari:6937 Narrated `Abdullah:When the Verse:--'Those who believe and did not confuse their belief with wrong (worshipping others 
besides Allah).' (6.82) was revealed, it was hard on the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) and they said, 
"Who among us has not wronged (oppressed) himself?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The meaning of the 
Verse is not as you think, but it is as Luqman said to his son, 'O my son! Join not in worship others 
with Allah, Verily! Joining others in worship with Allah is a great wrong indeed.'" (31.13)
Bukhari:6938 Narrated `Itban bin Malik:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me in the morning, and a man among us said, "Where is Malik bin Ad- 
Dukhshun?" Another man from us replied, "He is a hypocrite who does not love Allah and His 
Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't you think that he says: None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah, only for Allah's sake?" They replied, "Yes" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody will meet Allah with 
that saying on the Day of Resurrection, but Allah will save him from the Fire."
Bukhari:6939 Narrated:Abu `Abdur-Rahman and Hibban bin 'Atiyya had a dispute. Abu `Abdur-Rahman said to Hibban, 
"You know what made your companions (i.e. `Ali) dare to shed blood." Hibban said, "Come on! What 
is that?" `Abdur-Rahman said, "Something I heard him saying." The other said, "What was it?" 
`AbdurRahman said, "`Ali said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for me, Az-Zubair and Abu Marthad, and all of 
us were cavalry men, and said, 'Proceed to Raudat-Hajj (Abu Salama said that Abu 'Awana called it 
like this, i.e., Hajj where there is a woman carrying a letter from Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to the pagans 
(of Mecca). So bring that letter to me.' So we proceeded riding on our horses till we overtook her at 
the same place of which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had told us. She was traveling on her camel. In that letter 
Hatib had written to the Meccans about the proposed attached of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) against them. We 
asked her, "Where is the letter which is with you?' She replied, 'I haven't got any letter.' So we made 
her camel kneel down and searched her luggage, but we did not find anything. My two companions 
said, 'We do not think that she has got a letter.' I said, 'We know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has not told a 
lie.'" 
Then `Ali took an oath saying, "By Him by Whom one should swear! You shall either bring out the 
letter or we shall strip off your clothes." She then stretched out her hand for her girdle (round her 
waist) and brought out the paper (letter). They took the letter to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Umar said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (Hatib) has betrayed Allah, His Apostle and the believers; let me chop off his neck!" 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Hatib! What obliged you to do what you have done?" Hatib replied, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why (for what reason) should I not believe in Allah and His Apostle? But I intended 
to do the (Mecca) people a favor by virtue of which my family and property may be protected as there 
is none of your companions but has some of his people (relatives) whom Allah urges to protect his 
family and property." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He has said the truth; therefore, do not say anything to him 
except good." `Umar again said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He has betrayed Allah, His Apostle and the 
believers; let me chop his neck off!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't he from those who fought the battle of 
Badr? And what do you know, Allah might have looked at them (Badr warriors) and said (to them), 
'Do what you like, for I have granted you Paradise?' " On that, `Umar's eyes became flooded with tears 
and he said, "Allah and His Apostle know best."
Bukhari:6940 Narrated Abi Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah in his prayer, "O Allah! Save `Aiyash bin Abi Rabi`a and Salama 
bin Hisham and Al-Walid bin Al-Walid; O Allah! Save the weak among the believers; O Allah! Be 
hard upon the tribe of Mudar and inflict years (of famine) upon them like the (famine) years of 
Joseph."
Bukhari:6941 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever possesses the (following) three qualities will have the sweetness of 
faith (1): The one to whom Allah and His Apostle becomes dearer than anything else; (2) Who loves a 
person and he loves him only for Allah's Sake; (3) who hates to revert to atheism (disbelief) as he 
hates to be thrown into the Fire."
Bukhari:6942 Narrated Qais:I heard Sa`id bin Zaid saying, "I have seen myself tied and forced by `Umar to leave Islam (Before 
`Umar himself embraced Islam). And if the mountain of Uhud were to collapse for the evil which you 
people had done to `Uthman, then Uhud would have the right to do so." (See Hadith No. 202, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:6943 Narrated Khabbab bin Al-Art:We complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (about our state) while he was leaning against his sheet cloak in the 
shade of the Ka`ba. We said, "Will you ask Allah to help us? Will you invoke Allah for us?" He said, 
"Among those who were before you a (believer) used to be seized and, a pit used to be dug for him 
and then he used to be placed in it. Then a saw used to be brought and put on his head which would be 
split into two halves. His flesh might be combed with iron combs and removed from his bones, yet, all 
that did not cause him to revert from his religion. By Allah! This religion (Islam) will be completed 
(and triumph) till a rider (traveler) goes from San`a' (the capital of Yemen) to Hadramout fearing 
nobody except Allah and the wolf lest it should trouble his sheep, but you are impatient." (See Hadith 
No. 191, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:6944 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were in the mosque, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out to us and said, "Let us proceed to the Jews." 
So we went along with him till we reached Bait-al-Midras (a place where the Torah used to be recited 
and all the Jews of the town used to gather). The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and addressed them, "O Assembly 
of Jews! Embrace Islam and you will be safe!" The Jews replied, "O Aba-l-Qasim! You have 
conveyed Allah's message to us." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That is what I want (from you)." He repeated his 
first statement for the second time, and they said, "You have conveyed Allah's message, O Aba-l- 
Qasim." Then he said it for the third time and added, "You should Know that the earth belongs to 
Allah and His Apostle, and I want to exile you fro,,, this land, so whoever among you owns some 
property, can sell it, otherwise you should know that the Earth belongs to Allah and His Apostle." 
(See Hadith No. 392, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:6945 Narrated Khansa' bint Khidam Al-Ansariya:That her father gave her in marriage when she was a matron and she disliked that marriage. So she 
came and (complained) to the Prophets and he declared that marriage invalid. (See Hadith No. 69, 
Vol. 7)
Bukhari:6946 Narrated `Aisha:I asked the Prophet, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should the women be asked for their consent to their 
marriage?" He said, "Yes." I said, "A virgin, if asked, feels shy and keeps quiet." He said, "Her silence 
means her consent."
Bukhari:6947 Narrated Jabir:A man from the Ansar made his slave, a Mudabbar. And apart from that slave he did not have any 
other property. This news reached Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he said, "Who will buy that slave from me?" So 
Nu'aim bin An-Nahham bought him for 800 Dirham. Jabir added: It was a coptic (Egyptian) slave 
who died that year.
Bukhari:6948 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Qur'anic Verse: 'O you who believe! You are forbidden to inherit women against their 
will.' (4.19) The custom (in the Pre-lslamic Period) was that if a man died, his relatives used to have 
the right to inherit his wife, and if one of them wished, he could marry her, or they could marry her to 
somebody else, or prevent her from marrying if they wished, for they had more right to dispose of her 
than her own relatives. Therefore this Verse was revealed concerning this matter.
Bukhari:6949 And Safiyya bint 'Ubaid said:"A governmental male-slave tried to seduce a slave-girl from the Khumus of the war booty till he deflowered her by force against her will; therefore 'Umar flogged him according to the law, and exiled him, but he did not flog the female slave because the male-slave had committed illegal sexual intercourse by force, against her will."

Az-Zuhri said regarding a virgin slave-girl raped by a free man: The judge has to fine the adulterer as much money as is equal to the price of the female slave and the adulterer has to be flogged (according to the Islamic Law); but if the slave woman is a matron, then, according to the verdict of the Imam, the adulterer is not fined but he has to receive the legal punishment (according to the Islamic Law).
Bukhari:6950 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(The Prophet) Abraham migrated with his wife Sarah till he reached a town 
where there was a king or a tyrant who sent a message, to Abraham, ordering him to send Sarah to 
him. So when Abraham had sent Sarah, the tyrant got up, intending to do evil with her, but she got up 
and performed ablution and prayed and said, 'O Allah ! If I have believed in You and in Your Apostle, 
then do not empower this oppressor over me.' So he (the king) had an epileptic fit and started moving 
his legs violently. "
Bukhari:6951 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is a brother of another Muslim. So he should neither oppress him nor 
hand him over to an oppressor. And whoever fulfilled the needs of his brother, Allah will fulfill his 
needs."
Bukhari:6952 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Help your brother whether he is an oppressor or an oppressed," A man said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I will help him if he is oppressed, but if he is an oppressor, how shall I help him?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By preventing him from oppressing (others), for that is how to help him."
Bukhari:6953 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O people! The reward of deeds depends upon the intentions, and every person will 
get the reward according to what he has intended. So, whoever emigrated for Allah and His Apostle, 
then his emigration was for Allah and His Apostle, and whoever emigrated to take worldly benefit or 
for a woman to marry, then his emigration was for what he emigrated for."
Bukhari:6954 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah does not accept prayer of anyone of you if he does Hadath (passes wind) till 
he performs the ablution (anew).
Bukhari:6955 Narrated Anas:That Abu Bakr wrote for him, Zakat regulations which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had made compulsory, and 
wrote that one should neither collect various portions (of the property) nor divide the property into 
various portions in order to avoid paying Zakat.
Bukhari:6956 Narrated Talha bin 'Ubaidullah:A bedouin with unkempt hair came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Tell me what 
Allah has enjoined on me as regards prayers." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have to offer perfectly the five 
(compulsory) prayers in a day and a night (24 hrs.), except if you want to perform some extra optional 
prayers." The bedouin said, "Tell me what Allah has enjoined on me as regards fasting." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "You have to observe fast during the month of Ramadan except if you fast some extra optional 
fast." The bedouin said, "Tell me what Allah has enjoined on me as regard Zakat." The Prophet (ﷺ) then 
told him the Islamic laws and regulations whereupon the bedouin said, "By Him Who has honored 
you, I will not perform any optional deeds of worship and I will not leave anything of what Allah has 
enjoined on me." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He will be successful if he has told the truth (or he will enter 
Paradise if he said the truth)." And some people said, "The Zakat for one-hundred and twenty camels 
is two Hiqqas, and if the Zakat payer slaughters the camels intentionally or gives them as a present or 
plays some other trick in order to avoid the Zakat, then there is no harm (in it) for him.
Bukhari:6957 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection the Kanz (Treasure or wealth of which, Zakat has 
not been paid) of anyone of you will appear in the shape of a huge bald headed poisonous male snake 
and its owner will run away from it, but it will follow him and say, 'I am your Kanz.'" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added, "By Allah, that snake will keep on following him until he stretches out his hand and let the 
snake swallow it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "If the owner of camels does not pay their Zakat, then, on 
the Day of Resurrection those camels will come to him and will strike his face with their hooves." 
Some people said: Concerning a man who has camels, and is afraid that Zakat will be due so he sells 
those camels for similar camels or for sheep or cows or money one day before Zakat becomes due in 
order to avoid payment of their Zakat cunningly! "He has not to pay anything." The same scholar said, 
"If one pays Zakat of his camels one day or one year prior to the end of the year (by the end of which 
Zakat becomes due), his Zakat will be valid."
Bukhari:6958 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection the Kanz (Treasure or wealth of which, Zakat has 
not been paid) of anyone of you will appear in the shape of a huge bald headed poisonous male snake 
and its owner will run away from it, but it will follow him and say, 'I am your Kanz.'" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added, "By Allah, that snake will keep on following him until he stretches out his hand and let the 
snake swallow it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "If the owner of camels does not pay their Zakat, then, on 
the Day of Resurrection those camels will come to him and will strike his face with their hooves." 
Some people said: Concerning a man who has camels, and is afraid that Zakat will be due so he sells 
those camels for similar camels or for sheep or cows or money one day before Zakat becomes due in 
order to avoid payment of their Zakat cunningly! "He has not to pay anything." The same scholar said, 
"If one pays Zakat of his camels one day or one year prior to the end of the year (by the end of which 
Zakat becomes due), his Zakat will be valid."
Bukhari:6959 Narrated Ibn Abbas:Sa'd bin 'Ubada Al-Ansari sought the verdict of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     regarding a vow made by his mother who had died before fulfilling it. 
     Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fulfill it on her behalf." Some people said, 
     "If the number of camels reaches twenty, then their owner has to pay 
     four sheep as Zakat; and if their owner gives them as a gift or sells 
     them in order to escape the payment of Zakat cunningly before the 
     completion of a year, then he is not to pay anything, and if he 
     slaughters them and then dies, then no Zakat is to be taken from his 
     property."
Bukhari:6960 Narrated 'Abdullah:Nafi narrated to me that 'Abdullah said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade 
     the Shighar. I asked Nafi', "What is the Shighar?" He said, "It is to 
     marry the daughter of a man and marry one's daughter to that man (at 
     the same time) without Mahr (in both cases); or to marry the sister of
     a man and marry one's own sister to that man without Mahr." Some 
     people said, "If one, by a trick, marries on the basis of Shighar, the
     marriage is valid but its condition is illegal." The same scholar said
     regarding Al-Mut'a, "The marriage is invalid and its condition is 
     illegal." Some others said, "The Mut'a and the Shighar are permissible
     but the condition is illegal."
Bukhari:6961 Narrated Muhammad bin `Ali:`Ali was told that Ibn `Abbas did not see any harm in the Mut'a marriage. `Ali said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
forbade the Mut'a marriage on the Day of the battle of Khaibar and he forbade the eating of donkey's 
meat." Some people said, "If one, by a tricky way, marries temporarily, his marriage is illegal." Others 
said, "The marriage is valid but its condition is illegal."
Bukhari:6962 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "One should not prevent others from watering their animals with the surplus of 
his water in order to prevent them from benefiting by the surplus of grass."
Bukhari:6963 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the practice of An-Najsh.
Bukhari:6964 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A man mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) that he had always been cheated in bargains. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Whenever you do bargain, say, 'No cheating.'"
Bukhari:6965 Narrated `Urwa:That he asked `Aisha regarding the Verse: 'If you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly with the 
orphan girls, marry (other) women of your choice.' (4.3) `Aisha said, "It is about an orphan girl under 
the custody of her guardian who being attracted by her wealth and beauty wants to marry her with 
Mahr less than other women of her status. So such guardians were forbidden to marry them unless 
they treat them justly by giving them their full Mahr. Then the people sought the verdict of Allah's 
Apostle for such cases, whereupon Allah revealed: 'They ask your instruction concerning women..' 
(4.127) (The sub-narrator then mentioned the Hadith.)
Bukhari:6966 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every betrayer there will be a flag by which he will be recognized on the Day 
of Resurrection. "
Bukhari:6967 Narrated Um Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am only a human being, and you people have disputes. May be some one 
amongst you can present his case in a more eloquent and convincing manner than the other, and I give 
my judgment in his favor according to what I hear. Beware! If ever I give (by error) somebody 
something of his brother's right then he should not take it as I have only, given him a piece of Fire." 
(See Hadith No. 638. Vol. 3)
Bukhari:6968 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A virgin should not be married till she is asked for her consent; and the matron 
should not be married till she is asked whether she agrees to marry or not." It was asked, "O Allah's 
Apostle! How will she (the virgin) express her consent?" He said, "By keeping silent." Some people 
said that if a virgin is not asked for her consent and she is not married, and then a man, by playing a trick 
presents two false witnesses that he has married her with her consent and the judge confirms his 
marriage as a true one, and the husband knows that the witnesses were false ones, then there is no 
harm for him to consummate his marriage with her and the marriage is regarded as valid.
Bukhari:6969 Narrated Al-Qasim:A woman from the offspring of Ja`far was afraid lest her guardian marry her (to somebody) against 
her will. So she sent for two elderly men from the Ansar, `AbdurRahman and Mujammi', the two sons 
of Jariya, and they said to her, "Don't be afraid, for Khansa' bint Khidam was given by her father in 
marriage against her will, then the Prophet (ﷺ) cancelled that marriage." (See Hadith No. 78)
Bukhari:6970 Narrated Abu Haraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A lady slave should not be given in marriage until she is consulted, and a virgin 
should not be given in marriage until her permission is granted." The people said, "How will she 
express her permission?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By keeping silent (when asked her consent)." Some 
people said, "If a man, by playing a trick, presents two false witnesses before the judge to testify that 
he has married a matron with her consent and the judge confirms his marriage, and the husband is sure 
that he has never married her (before), then such a marriage will be considered as a legal one and he 
may live with her as husband."
Bukhari:6971 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is essential to have the consent of a virgin (for the marriage). I said, "A virgin 
feels shy." The Prophet; said, "Her silence means her consent." Some people said, "If a man falls in 
love with an orphan slave girl or a virgin and she refuses (him) and then he makes a trick by bringing 
two false witnesses to testify that he has married her, and then she attains the age of puberty and 
agrees to marry him and the judge accepts the false witness and the husband knows that the witnesses 
were false ones, he may consummate his marriage."
Bukhari:6972 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to like sweets and also used to like honey, and whenever he finished the `Asr 
prayer, he used to visit his wives and stay with them. Once he visited Hafsa and remained with her 
longer than the period he used to stay, so I enquired about it. It was said to me, "A woman from her 
tribe gave her a leather skin containing honey as a present, and she gave some of it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
to drink." I said, "By Allah, we will play a trick on him." So I mentioned the story to Sauda (the wife 
of the Prophet) and said to her, "When he enters upon you, he will come near to you whereupon you 
should say to him, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Have you eaten Maghafir?' He will say, 'No.' Then you say to 
him, 'What is this bad smell? ' And it would be very hard on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that a bad smell should be 
found on his body. He will say, 'Hafsa has given me a drink of honey.' Then you should say to him, 
'Its bees must have sucked from the Al-`Urfut (a foul smelling flower).' I too, will tell him the same. 
And you, O Saifya, say the same." 
So when the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon Sauda (the following happened). Sauda said, "By Him except 
Whom none has the right to be worshipped, I was about to say to him what you had told me to say 
while he was still at the gate because of fear from you. But when Allah 's Apostle came near to me, I 
said to him, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Have you eaten Maghafir?' He replied, 'No.' I said, 'What about this 
smell?' He said, 'Hafsa has given me a drink of honey.' I said, 'Its bees must have sucked Al-`Urfut.' " 
When he entered upon me, I told him the same as that, and when he entered upon Safiya, she too told 
him the same. So when he visited Hafsa again, she said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I give you a 
drink of it (honey)?" He said, "I have no desire for it." Sauda said, Subhan Allah! We have deprived 
him of it (honey)." I said to her, "Be quiet!"
Bukhari:6973 Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Amir bin Rabi`a:`Umar bin Al-Khattab left for Sham, and when he reached a placed called Sargh, he came to know 
that there was an outbreak of an epidemic (of plague) in Sham. Then `AbdurRahman bin `Auf told 
him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you hear the news of an outbreak of an epidemic (plague) in a 
certain place, do not enter that place: and if the epidemic falls in a place while you are present in it, do 
not leave that place to escape from the epidemic." So `Umar returned from Sargh.
Bukhari:6974 Narrated 'Amir bin Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:That he heard Usama bin Zaid speaking to Sa`d, saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned the plague and 
said, 'It is a means of punishment with which some nations were punished and some of it has 
remained, and it appears now and then. So whoever hears that there is an outbreak of plague in some 
land, he should not go to that land, and if the plague breaks out in the land where one is already 
present, one should not run away from that land, escaping from the plague."
Bukhari:6975 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who takes back his gift is like a dog swallowing its own vomit, and we 
(believers) should not act according to this bad example."
Bukhari:6976 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) has decreed that preemption is valid in all cases where the real estate concerned has not 
been divided, but if the boundaries are established and the ways are made, then there is no preemption. 
A man said, "Preemption is only for the neighbor," and then he makes invalid what he has confirmed. 
He said, "If someone wants to buy a house and being afraid that the neighbor (of the house) may buy 
it through preemption, he buys one share out of one hundred shares of the house and then buys the rest 
of the house, then the neighbor can only have the right of preemption for the first share but not for the 
rest of the house; and the buyer may play such a trick in this case."
Bukhari:6977 Narrated 'Amr bin Ash-Sharid:Al-Miswar bin Makhrama came and put his hand on my shoulder and I 
     accompanied him to Sa'd. Abu Rafi' said to Al-Miswar, "Won't you order
     this (i.e. Sa'd) to buy my house which is in my yard?" Sa'd said, "I 
     will not offer more than four hundred in installments over a fixed 
     period." Abu Rafi said, "I was offered five hundred cash but I 
     refused. Had I not heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'A neighbor is more 
     entitled to receive the care of his neighbor,' I would not have sold 
     it to you." The narrator said, to Sufyan: Ma'mar did not say so. 
     Sufyan said, "But he did say so to me." Some people said, "If someone 
     wants to sell a house and deprived somebody of the right of 
     preemption, he has the right to play a trick to render the preemption 
     invalid. And that is by giving the house to the buyer as a present and
     marking its boundaries and giving it to him. The buyer then gives the 
     seller one-thousand Dirham as compensation in which case the preemptor
     loses his right of preemption."
Bukhari:6978 Narrated 'Amr bin Ash-Sharid:Abu Rafi' said that Sa'd offered him 
     four hundred Mithqal of gold for a house. Abu Rafi ' said, "If I had 
     not heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'A neighbor has more right to be 
     taken care of by his neighbor,' then I would not have given it to 
     you." Some people said, "If one has bought a portion of a house and 
     wants to cancel the right of preemption, he may give it as a present 
     to his little son and he will not be obliged to take an oath."
Bukhari:6979 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) appointed a man called Ibn Al-Lutabiyya to collect the Zakat from Bani Sulaim's 
tribe. When he returned, the Prophet (ﷺ) called him to account. He said (to the Prophet, 'This is your 
money, and this has been given to me as a gift." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Why didn't you stay in 
your father's and mother's house to see whether you will be given gifts or not if you are telling the 
truth?" Then the Prophet (ﷺ) addressed us, and after praising and glorifying Allah, he said: "Amma 
Ba'du", I employ a man from among you to manage some affair of what Allah has put under my 
custody, and then he comes to me and says, 'This is your money and this has been given to me as a 
gift. Why didn't he stay in his father's and mother's home to see whether he will be given gifts or not? 
By Allah, not anyone of you takes a thing unlawfully but he will meet Allah on the Day of 
Resurrection, carrying that thing. I do not want to see any of you carrying a grunting camel or a 
mooing cow or a bleating sheep on meeting Allah." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) raised both his hands till the 
whiteness of his armpits became visible, and he said, "O Allah! Haven't I have conveyed (Your 
Message)?" The narrator added: My eyes witnessed and my ears heard (that Hadith).
Bukhari:6980 Narrated Abu Rafi`:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The neighbor has more right to be taken care of by his neighbor (than anyone 
else)." Some men said, "If one wants to buy a house for 20,000 Dirhams then there is no harm to play 
a trick to deprive somebody of preemption by buying it (just on paper) with 20,000 Dirhams but 
paying to the seller only 9,999 Dirhams in cash and then agree with the seller to pay only one Dinar in 
cash for the rest of the price (i.e. 10,001 Dirhams). If the preemptor offers 20,000 Dirhams for the 
house, he can buy it otherwise he has no right to buy it (by this trick he got out of preemption). If the 
house proves to belong to somebody else other than the seller, the buyer should take back from the 
seller what he has paid, i.e., 9,999 Dirhams and one Dinar, because if the house proves to belong to 
somebody else, so the whole bargain (deal) is unlawful. If the buyer finds a defect in the house and it 
does not belong to somebody other than the seller, the buyer may return it and receive 20,000 Dirhams 
(instead of 9999 Dirham plus one Dinar) which he actually paid.' Abu `Abdullah said, "So that man 
allows (some people) the playing of tricks amongst the Muslims (although) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'In 
dealing with Muslims one should not sell them sick (animals) or bad things or stolen things."
Bukhari:6981 Narrated `Amr bin Ash-Sharid:Abu Rafi` sold a house to Sa`d bin Malik for four-hundred Mithqal of gold, and said, "If I had not 
heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'The neighbor has more right to be taken care of by his neighbor (than 
anyone else),' then I would not have sold it to you."
Bukhari:6982 Narrated `Aisha:The commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of good righteous 
(true) dreams in his sleep. He never had a dream but that it came true like bright day light. He used to 
go in seclusion (the cave of) Hira where he used to worship(Allah Alone) continuously for many 
(days) nights. He used to take with him the journey food for that (stay) and then come back to (his 
wife) Khadija to take his food like-wise again for another period to stay, till suddenly the Truth 
descended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira. The angel came to him in it and asked him to 
read. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I do not know how to read." (The Prophet (ﷺ) added), "The angel caught me 
(forcefully) and pressed me so hard that I could not bear it anymore. He then released me and again 
asked me to read, and I replied, "I do not know how to read," whereupon he caught me again and 
pressed me a second time till I could not bear it anymore. He then released me and asked me again to 
read, but again I replied, "I do not know how to read (or, what shall I read?)." Thereupon he caught 
me for the third time and pressed me and then released me and said, "Read: In the Name of your Lord, 
Who has created (all that exists). Has created man from a clot. Read and Your Lord is Most 
Generous...up to..... ..that which he knew not." (96.15) 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned with the Inspiration, his neck muscles twitching with terror till he 
entered upon Khadija and said, "Cover me! Cover me!" They covered him till his fear was over and 
then he said, "O Khadija, what is wrong with me?" Then he told her everything that had happened and 
said, 'I fear that something may happen to me." Khadija said, 'Never! But have the glad tidings, for by 
Allah, Allah will never disgrace you as you keep good reactions with your Kith and kin, speak the 
truth, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guest generously and assist the deserving, calamityafflicted 
ones." Khadija then accompanied him to (her cousin) Waraqa bin Naufal bin Asad bin 
`Abdul `Uzza bin Qusai. Waraqa was the son of her paternal uncle, i.e., her father's brother, who 
during the Pre-Islamic Period became a Christian and used to write the Arabic writing and used to 
write of the Gospels in Arabic as much as Allah wished him to write. He was an old man and had lost 
his eyesight. Khadija said to him, "O my cousin! Listen to the story of your nephew." Waraqa asked, 
"O my nephew! What have you seen?" The Prophet (ﷺ) described whatever he had seen. 
Waraqa said, "This is the same Namus (i.e., Gabriel, the Angel who keeps the secrets) whom Allah 
had sent to Moses. I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turn 
you out." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Will they turn me out?" Waraqa replied in the affirmative and said: 
"Never did a man come with something similar to what you have brought but was treated with 
hostility. If I should remain alive till the day when you will be turned out then I would support you 
strongly." But after a few days Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was also paused for a while 
and the Prophet (ﷺ) became so sad as we have heard that he intended several times to throw himself from 
the tops of high mountains and every time he went up the top of a mountain in order to throw himself 
down, Gabriel would appear before him and say, "O Muhammad! You are indeed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in 
truth" whereupon his heart would become quiet and he would calm down and would return home. And 
whenever the period of the coming of the inspiration used to become long, he would do as before, but 
when he used to reach the top of a mountain, Gabriel would appear before him and say to him what he 
had said before. (Ibn `Abbas said regarding the meaning of: 'He it is that Cleaves the daybreak (from 
the darkness)' (6.96) that Al-Asbah. means the light of the sun during the day and the light of the 
moon at night).
Bukhari:6983 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A good dream (that comes true) of a righteous man is one of forty-six parts of 
prophetism."
Bukhari:6984 Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A true good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan."
Bukhari:6985 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you sees a dream that he likes, then it is from Allah, and he should 
thank Allah for it and narrate it to others; but if he sees something else, i.e., a dream that he dislikes, 
then it is from Satan, and he should seek refuge with Allah from its evil, and he should not mention it 
to anybody, for it will not harm him."
Bukhari:6986 Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A good dream that comes true is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan, so if 
anyone of you sees a bad dream, he should seek refuge with Allah from Satan and should spit on the 
left, for the bad dream will not harm him."
Bukhari:6987 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The (good) dreams of a faithful believer is a part of the forty-six parts of 
prophetism:'
Bukhari:6988 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (good) dream of a faithful believer is a part of the forty-six parts of 
prophetism."
Bukhari:6989 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is a part of the forty six parts of prophetism."
Bukhari:6990 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Nothing is left of the prophetism except Al-Mubashshirat." They 
asked, "What are Al-Mubashshirat?" He replied, "The true good dreams (that conveys glad tidings).
Bukhari:6991 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Some people were shown the Night of Qadr as being in the last seven days (of the month of 
Ramadan). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seek it in the last seven days (of Ramadan).
Bukhari:6992 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I stayed in prison as long as Joseph stayed and then the messenger came, I 
would respond to his call (to go out of the prison) ."
Bukhari:6993 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever sees me in a dream will see me in his wakefulness, and Satan 
cannot imitate me in shape." Abu `Abdullah said, "Ibn Seereen said, 'Only if he sees the Prophet (ﷺ) in his 
(real) shape.'"
Bukhari:6994 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has seen me in a dream, then no doubt, he has seen me, for Satan cannot 
imitate my shape.
Bukhari:6995 Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan. So whoever has seen 
(in a dream) something he dislikes, then he should spit without saliva, thrice on his left and seek refuge 
with Allah from Satan, for it will not harm him, and Satan cannot appear in my shape."
Bukhari:6996 Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever sees me (in a dream) then he indeed has seen the truth ."
Bukhari:6997 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who ever sees me (in a dream) then he indeed has seen the truth, as Satan cannot 
appear in my shape."
Bukhari:6998 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been given the keys of eloquent speech and given victory with awe (cast 
into the hearts of the enemy), and while I was sleeping last night, the keys of the treasures of the earth 
were brought to me till they were put in my hand." Abu Huraira added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left (this 
world) and now you people are carrying those treasures from place to place.
Bukhari:6999 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I saw myself (in a dream) near the Ka`ba last night, and I saw a man with 
whitish red complexion, the best you may see amongst men of that complexion having long hair 
reaching his earlobes which was the best hair of its sort, and he had combed his hair and water was 
dropping from it, and he was performing the Tawaf around the Ka`ba while he was leaning on two 
men or on the shoulders of two men. I asked, 'Who is this man?' Somebody replied, '(He is) Messiah, 
son of Mary.' Then I saw another man with very curly hair, blind in the right eye which looked like a 
protruding out grape. I asked, 'Who is this?' Somebody replied, '(He is) Messiah, Ad-Dajjal.'"
Bukhari:7000 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:About a man who came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I was shown in a dream last night..." Then Ibn 
`Abbas mentioned the narration.
Bukhari:7001 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit Um Haram bint Milhan she was the wife of 'Ubada bin As-Samit. One 
day the Prophet (ﷺ) visited her and she provided him with food and started looking for lice in his head. 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept and afterwards woke up smiling. Um Haram asked, "What makes you 
smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Some of my followers were presented before me in my dream as 
fighters in Allah's Cause, sailing in the middle of the seas like kings on the thrones or like kings sitting 
on their thrones." (The narrator 'Is-haq is not sure as to which expression was correct). Um Haram 
added, 'I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah, to make me one of them;" So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
invoked Allah for her and then laid his head down (and slept). Then he woke up smiling (again). (Um 
Haram added): I said, "What makes you smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Some people of my 
followers were presented before me (in a dream) as fighters in Allah's Cause." He said the same as he 
had said before. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me from them." He said, "You are 
among the first ones." Then Um Haram sailed over the sea during the Caliphate of Muawiya bin Abu 
Sufyan, and she fell down from her riding animal after coming ashore, and died.
Bukhari:7002 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit Um Haram bint Milhan she was the wife of 'Ubada bin As-Samit. One 
day the Prophet (ﷺ) visited her and she provided him with food and started looking for lice in his head. 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept and afterwards woke up smiling. Um Haram asked, "What makes you 
smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Some of my followers were presented before me in my dream as 
fighters in Allah's Cause, sailing in the middle of the seas like kings on the thrones or like kings sitting 
on their thrones." (The narrator 'Is-haq is not sure as to which expression was correct). Um Haram 
added, 'I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah, to make me one of them;" So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
invoked Allah for her and then laid his head down (and slept). Then he woke up smiling (again). (Um 
Haram added): I said, "What makes you smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Some people of my 
followers were presented before me (in a dream) as fighters in Allah's Cause." He said the same as he 
had said before. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me from them." He said, "You are 
among the first ones." Then Um Haram sailed over the sea during the Caliphate of Muawiya bin Abu 
Sufyan, and she fell down from her riding animal after coming ashore, and died.
Bukhari:7003 Narrated Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit:Um Al-`Ala an Ansari woman who had given a pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told me:, "The 
Muhajirln (emigrants) were distributed amongst us by drawing lots, and we got `Uthman bin Maz'un 
in our share. We made him stay with us in our house. Then he suffered from a disease which proved 
fatal. When he died and was given a bath and was shrouded in his clothes. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, I 
said, (addressing the dead body), 'O Aba As-Sa'ib! May Allah be Merciful to you! I testify that Allah 
has honored you.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'How do you know that Allah has honored him?" I replied, 'Let 
my father be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! On whom else shall Allah bestow. His honor?' 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'As for him, by Allah, death has come to him. By Allah, I wish him all good 
(from Allah). By Allah, in spite of the fact that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I do not know what Allah will do 
to me.", Um Al-`Ala added, "By Allah, I will never attest the righteousness of anybody after that."
Bukhari:7004 Narrated Az-Zuhri:Regarding the above narration, The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not know what Allah will do to him (Uthman 
bin Maz'un)." Um Al-`Ala said, "I felt very sorry for that, and then I slept and saw in a dream a 
flowing spring for `Uthman bin Maz'un, and told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of that, and he said, "That flowing 
spring symbolizes his good deeds."
Bukhari:7005 Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Ansari:(a companion of the Prophet (ﷺ) and one of his cavalry men) "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A good 
dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan; so, if anyone of you had a bad dream which he 
disliked, then he should spit on his left and seek refuge with Allah from it, for it will not harm him."
Bukhari:7006 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I was given a bowl full of milk (in a dream), 
and I drank of it to my fill until I noticed its wetness coming out of my nails, and then I gave the rest 
of it to `Umar." They (the people) asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream)? O Allah's 
Apostle?" He said, "(It is Religious) knowledge."
Bukhari:7007 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I was given a bowl full of milk (in the dream) and I drank 
from it (to my fill) till I noticed its wetness coming out of my limbs. Then I gave the rest of it to 
`Umar bin Al-Khattab." The persons sitting around him, asked, "What have you interpreted (about the 
dream) O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "(It is religious) knowledge."
Bukhari:7008 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, some people were displayed before me (in a dream). They 
were wearing shirts, some of which were merely covering their breasts, and some a bit longer. Then 
there passed before me, `Umar bin Al-Khattab wearing a shirt he was dragging it (on the ground 
behind him.)" They (the people) asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream) O Allah's 
Apostle?" He said, "The Religion."
Bukhari:7009 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw (in a dream) the people being displayed 
before me, wearing shirts, some of which (were so short that it) reached as far as their breasts and 
some reached below that. Then `Umar bin Al-Khattab was shown to me and he was wearing a shirt 
which he was dragging (behind him)." They asked. What have you interpreted (about the dream)? O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "The religion."
Bukhari:7010 Narrated Qais bin 'Ubada:I was sitting in a gathering in which there was Sa`d bin Malik and Ibn `Umar. `Abdullah bin Salam 
passed in front of them and they said, "This man is from the people of Paradise." I said to `Abdullah 
bin Salam, "They said so-and-so." He replied, "Subhan Allah! They ought not to have said things of 
which they have no knowledge, but I saw (in a dream) that a post was fixed in a green garden. At the 
top of the post there was a handhold and below it there was a servant. I was asked to climb (the post). 
So I climbed it till I got hold of the handhold." Then I narrated this dream to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's 
Apostle said, "`Abdullah will die while still holding the firm reliable handhold (i.e., Islam).
Bukhari:7011 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), "You were shown to me twice in (my) dream. Behold, a man was 
carrying you in a silken piece of cloth and said to me, "She is your wife, so uncover her,' and behold, 
it was you. I would then say (to myself), 'If this is from Allah, then it must happen.' "
Bukhari:7012 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "You were shown to me twice (in my dream) before I married you. I saw 
an angel carrying you in a silken piece of cloth, and I said to him, 'Uncover (her),' and behold, it was 
you. I said (to myself), 'If this is from Allah, then it must happen.' Then you were shown to me, the 
angel carrying you in a silken piece of cloth, and I said (to him), 'Uncover (her), and behold, it was 
you. I said (to myself), 'If this is from Allah, then it must happen.' "
Bukhari:7013 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "I have been sent with Jawami al-Kalim (i.e., the shortest expression carrying the widest meanings), and I was made victorious with awe (cast into the hearts of the enemy), and while I was sleeping, the keys of the treasures of the earth were brought to me and were put in my hand." 
Muhammad said, Jawami'-al-Kalim means that Allah expresses in one or two statements or thereabouts the numerous matters that used to be written in the books revealed before (the coming of) the Prophet.
Bukhari:7014 Narrated `Abdullah bin Salam:(In a dream) I saw myself in a garden, and there was a pillar in the middle of the garden, and there was 
a handhold at the top of the pillar. I was asked to climb it. I said, "I cannot." Then a servant came and 
lifted up my clothes and I climbed (the pillar), and then got hold of the handhold, and I woke up while 
still holding it. I narrated that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "The garden symbolizes the garden of Islam, 
and the handhold is the firm Islamic handhold which indicates that you will be adhering firmly to 
Islam until you die."
Bukhari:7015 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw in a dream a piece of silken cloth in my hand, and in whatever direction in Paradise I waved it, it 
flew, carrying me there. I narrated this (dream) to (my sister) Hafsa and she told it to the Prophet (ﷺ) who 
said, (to Hafsa), "Indeed, your brother is a righteous man," or, "Indeed, `Abdullah is a righteous man."
Bukhari:7016 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw in a dream a piece of silken cloth in my hand, and in whatever direction in Paradise I waved it, it 
flew, carrying me there. I narrated this (dream) to (my sister) Hafsa and she told it to the Prophet (ﷺ) who 
said, (to Hafsa), "Indeed, your brother is a righteous man," or, "Indeed, `Abdullah is a righteous man."
Bukhari:7017 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Day of Resurrection approaches, the dreams of a believer will hardly 
fail to come true, and a dream of a believer is one of forty-six parts of prophetism, and whatever 
belongs to prothetism can never be false." Muhammad bin Seereen said, "But I say this." He said, "It 
used to be said, 'There are three types of dreams: The reflection of one's thoughts and experiences one 
has during wakefulness, what is suggested by Satan to frighten the dreamer, or glad tidings from 
Allah. So, if someone has a dream which he dislikes, he should not tell it to others, but get up and 
offer a prayer." He added, "He (Abu Huraira) hated to see a Ghul (i.e., iron collar around his neck in a 
dream) and people liked to see fetters (on their feet in a dream). The fetters on the feet symbolizes 
one's constant and firm adherence to religion." And Abu `Abdullah said, "Ghuls (iron collars) are used 
only for necks."
Bukhari:7018 Narrated Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit:Um Al-`Ala an Ansari woman who had given the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 
"`Uthman bin Maz'un came in our share when the Ansars drew lots to distribute the emigrants (to 
dwell) among themselves, He became sick and we looked after (nursed) him till he died. Then we 
shrouded him in his clothes. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us, I (addressing the dead body) said, "May 
Allah's Mercy be on you, O Aba As-Sa'ib! I testify that Allah has honored you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
'How do you know that?' I replied, 'I do not know, by Allah.' He said, 'As for him, death has come to 
him and I wish him all good from Allah. By Allah, though I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I neither know what 
will happen to me, nor to you.'" Um Al-`Ala said, "By Allah, I will never attest the righteousness of 
anybody after that." She added, "Later I saw in a dream, a flowing spring for `Uthman. So I went to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. He said, 'That is (the symbol of) his good deeds (the 
reward for) which is going on for him.' "
Bukhari:7019 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(I saw in a dream that) while I was standing at a well and drawing water 
therefrom, suddenly Abu Bakr and `Umar came to me. Abu Bakr took the bucket and drew one or two 
buckets (full of water), but there was weakness in his pulling, but Allah forgave him. Then Ibn Al- 
Khattab took the bucket from Abu Bakr's hand and the bucket turned into a very large one in his hand. 
I have never seen any strong man among the people doing such a hard job as `Umar did, till (the 
people drank to their satisfaction) and water their camels to their fill and they sat near the water."
Bukhari:7020 Narrated Salim's father:about the Prophet's dream in which he has seen Abu Bakr and `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a 
dream) that the people had gathered. Then Abu Bakr stood up and pulled out one or two buckets full 
of water (from a well) and there was weakness in his pulling -- may Allah forgive him. Then Ibn Al- 
Khattab stood up, and the bucket turned into a very large one and I have never seen any strong man 
among the people doing such a hard job. He pulled out so much water that the people (drank to their 
satisfaction) and watered their camels to their fill, (and then after quenching their thirst) they sat 
beside the water."
Bukhari:7021 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself standing at a well over which there was a 
bucket. I pulled out from it as many buckets of water as Allah wished, and then Ibn Abi Quhafa (Abu 
Bakr) took the bucket from me and pulled out one or two full buckets, and there was weakness in his 
pull--may Allah forgive him. Then the bucket turned into a very large one and `Umar bin Al-Khattab 
took it. I have never seen any strong man among the people, drawing water with such strength as 
`Umar did, till the people (drank to their satisfaction and) watered their camels to their fill; whereupon 
the camels sat beside the water."
Bukhari:7022 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself standing over a tank (well) giving water to 
the people to drink. Then Abu Bakr came to me and took the bucket from me in order to relieve me 
and he pulled out one or two full buckets, and there was weakness in his pulling --may Allah forgive 
him. Then Ibn Al-Khattab took it from him and went on drawing water till the people left (after being 
satisfied) while the tank was over flowing with water."
Bukhari:7023 Narrated Abu Huraira:We were sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself in Paradise. 
Suddenly I saw a woman performing ablution beside a palace. I asked, "For whom is this palace?" 
They (the angels) replied, "It is for `Umar bin Al-Khattab." Then I remembered `Umar's ghira and 
went back hurriedly." On hearing that, `Umar started weeping and said, " Let my father and mother be 
sacrificed for you. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How dare I think of my Ghira being offended by you?
Bukhari:7024 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: (I saw in a dream that) I entered Paradise, and behold, there was a palace built of 
gold! I asked, 'For whom is this palace?' They (the angels) replied, 'For a man from the Quraish.' " The 
Prophet added, "O Ibn Al-Khattab! Nothing stopped me from entering it except your Ghira." `Umar 
said, "How dare I think of my Ghira being offended by you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Bukhari:7025 Narrated Abu Huraira:We were sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself in Paradise, and 
behold, a woman was performing ablution by the side of a palace. I asked, 'For whom is this palace?' 
They replied, 'For `Umar' Then I remembered the Ghira of `Umar and returned immediately." `Umar 
wept (on hearing that) and said, " Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
How dare I think of my Ghira being offended by you.'
Bukhari:7026 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself performing the Tawaf of the Ka`ba. Behold, 
there I saw a whitish-red lank-haired man (holding himself) between two men with water dropping 
from his hair. I asked, 'Who is this?' The people replied, 'He is the son of Mary.' Then I turned my face 
to see another man with red complexion, big body, curly hair, and blind in the right eye which looked 
like a protruding out grape. I asked, 'Who is he?' They replied, 'He is Ad-Dajjal.' Ibn Qatan resembles 
him more than anybody else among the people and Ibn Qatan was a man from Bani Al-Mustaliq from 
Khuza`a."
Bukhari:7027 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw a bowl full of milk was brought to me 
and I drank of it (to my fill) till I noticed its wetness flowing (in my body). Then I gave the remaining 
of it to `Umar." They asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What have you interpreted (about the dream)? He 
said, "(It is Religious) knowledge." (See Hadith No. 134)
Bukhari:7028 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Men from the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to see dreams during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and they used to narrate those dreams to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would interpret them as 
Allah wished. I was a young man and used to stay in the mosque before my wedlock. I said to myself, 
"If there were any good in myself, I too would see what these people see." So when I went to bed one 
night, I said, "O Allah! If you see any good in me, show me a good dream." So while I was in that 
state, there came to me (in a dream) two angels. In the hand of each of them, there was a mace of iron, 
and both of them were taking me to Hell, and I was between them, invoking Allah, "O Allah! I seek 
refuge with You from Hell." Then I saw myself being confronted by another angel holding a mace of 
iron in his hand. He said to me, "Do not be afraid, you will be an excellent man if you only pray more 
often." So they took me till they stopped me at the edge of Hell, and behold, it was built inside like a 
well and it had side posts like those of a well, and beside each post there was an angel carrying an iron 
mace. I saw therein many people hanging upside down with iron chains, and I recognized therein 
some men from the Quraish. Then (the angels) took me to the right side. I narrated this dream to (my 
sister) Hafsa and she told it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, `Abdullah is a good 
man." (Nafi` said, "Since then `Abdullah bin `Umar used to pray much.)
Bukhari:7029 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Men from the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to see dreams during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and they used to narrate those dreams to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would interpret them as 
Allah wished. I was a young man and used to stay in the mosque before my wedlock. I said to myself, 
"If there were any good in myself, I too would see what these people see." So when I went to bed one 
night, I said, "O Allah! If you see any good in me, show me a good dream." So while I was in that 
state, there came to me (in a dream) two angels. In the hand of each of them, there was a mace of iron, 
and both of them were taking me to Hell, and I was between them, invoking Allah, "O Allah! I seek 
refuge with You from Hell." Then I saw myself being confronted by another angel holding a mace of 
iron in his hand. He said to me, "Do not be afraid, you will be an excellent man if you only pray more 
often." So they took me till they stopped me at the edge of Hell, and behold, it was built inside like a 
well and it had side posts like those of a well, and beside each post there was an angel carrying an iron 
mace. I saw therein many people hanging upside down with iron chains, and I recognized therein 
some men from the Quraish. Then (the angels) took me to the right side. I narrated this dream to (my 
sister) Hafsa and she told it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, `Abdullah is a good 
man." (Nafi` said, "Since then `Abdullah bin `Umar used to pray much.)
Bukhari:7030 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I was a young unmarried man during the lifetime of the Prophet. I used to sleep in the mosque. 
Anyone who had a dream, would narrate it to the Prophet. I said, "O Allah! If there is any good for me 
with You, then show me a dream so that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) may interpret it for me." So I slept and saw 
(in a dream) two angels came to me and took me along with them, and they met another angel who 
said to me, "Don't be afraid, you are a good man." They took me towards the Fire, and behold, it was 
built inside like a well, and therein I saw people some of whom I recognized, and then the angels took 
me to the right side. In the morning, I mentioned that dream to Hafsa. Hafsa told me that she had 
mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "`Abdullah is a righteous man if he only prays more at night." 
(Az-Zuhri said, "After that, `Abdullah used to pray more at night.")
Bukhari:7031 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I was a young unmarried man during the lifetime of the Prophet. I used to sleep in the mosque. 
Anyone who had a dream, would narrate it to the Prophet. I said, "O Allah! If there is any good for me 
with You, then show me a dream so that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) may interpret it for me." So I slept and saw 
(in a dream) two angels came to me and took me along with them, and they met another angel who 
said to me, "Don't be afraid, you are a good man." They took me towards the Fire, and behold, it was 
built inside like a well, and therein I saw people some of whom I recognized, and then the angels took 
me to the right side. In the morning, I mentioned that dream to Hafsa. Hafsa told me that she had 
mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "`Abdullah is a righteous man if he only prays more at night." 
(Az-Zuhri said, "After that, `Abdullah used to pray more at night.")
Bukhari:7032 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw that a cup full of milk was brought to me 
and I drank of it and gave the remaining of it to `Umar bin Al-Khattab." They asked. What have you 
interpreted (about the dream)? O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said. "(It is Religious) knowledge."
Bukhari:7033 Narated Ubaidullah bin Abdullah:I asked Ibn Abbas about the dream of Allah's Messenger which he mentioned.(see following hadith)
Bukhari:7034 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, two golden bangles were put in my two hands, so I got 
scared (frightened) and disliked it, but I was given permission to blow them off, and they flew away. I 
interpret it as a symbol of two liars who will appear." 'Ubaidullah said, "One of them was Al-`Ansi 
who was killed by Fairuz at Yemen and the other was Musailama (at Najd) .
Bukhari:7035 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw in a dream that I was migrating from Mecca to a land where there were date 
palm trees. I thought that it might be the land of Al-Yamama or Hajar, but behold, it turned out to be 
Yathrib (i.e. Medina). And I saw cows (being slaughtered) there, but the reward given by Allah is 
better (than worldly benefits). Behold, those cows proved to symbolize the believers (who were killed) 
on the Day (of the battle) of Uhud, and the good (which I saw in the dream) was the good and the 
reward and the truth which Allah bestowed upon us after the Badr battle. (or the Battle of Uhud) and 
that was the victory bestowed by Allah in the Battle of Khaibar and the conquest of Mecca) .
Bukhari:7036 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the foremost (on the Day of 
Resurrection)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, ''While sleeping, I was given the treasures of the world 
and two golden bangles were put in my hands, but I felt much annoyed, and those two bangles 
distressed me very much, but I was inspired that I should blow them off, so I blew them and they flew 
away. Then I interpreted that those two bangles were the liars between whom I was (i.e., the one of 
San`a' and the one of Yamama).
Bukhari:7037 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the foremost (on the Day of 
Resurrection)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, ''While sleeping, I was given the treasures of the world 
and two golden bangles were put in my hands, but I felt much annoyed, and those two bangles 
distressed me very much, but I was inspired that I should blow them off, so I blew them and they flew 
away. Then I interpreted that those two bangles were the liars between whom I was (i.e., the one of 
San`a' and the one of Yamama).
Bukhari:7038 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and 
settling at Mahai'a, i.e., Al-Juhfa. I interpreted that as a symbol of epidemic of Medina being 
transferred to that place (Al-Juhfa).
Bukhari:7039 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:concerning the dream of the Prophet (ﷺ) in Medina: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman 
with unkempt hair going out of Medina and settling at Mahai'a. I interpreted that as (a symbol of) the 
epidemic of Medina being transferred to Mahai'a, namely, Al-Juhfa."
Bukhari:7040 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and 
settling in Mahai'a. I interpreted that as (a symbol of) epidemic of Medina being transferred to 
Mahai'a, namely, Al-Juhfa."
Bukhari:7041 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw in a dream that I waved a sword and it broke in the middle, and behold, that 
symbolized the casualties the believers suffered on the Day (of the battle) of Uhud. Then I waved the 
sword again, and it became better than it had ever been before, and behold, that symbolized the 
Conquest (of Mecca) which Allah brought about and the gathering of the believers. "
Bukhari:7042 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever claims to have seen a dream which he did not see, will be ordered to 
make a knot between two barley grains which he will not be able to do; and if somebody listens to the 
talk of some people who do not like him (to listen) or they run away from him, then molten lead will 
be poured into his ears on the Day of Resurrection; and whoever makes a picture, will be punished on 
the Day of Resurrection and will be ordered to put a soul in that picture, which he will not be able to 
do." 

Ibn `Abbas also narrated a similar hadith.
Bukhari:7043 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The worst lie is that a person claims to have seen a dream which he has not 
seen."
Bukhari:7044 Narrated Abu Salama:I used to see a dream which would make me sick till I heard Abu Qatada saying, "I too, used to see a 
dream which would make me sick till I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is from Allah, so if 
anyone of you saw a dream which he liked, he should not tell it to anybody except to the one whom he 
loves, and if he saw a dream which he disliked, then he should seek refuge with Allah from its evil 
and from the evil of Satan, and spit three times (on his left) and should not tell it to anybody, for it will 
not harm him. "
Bukhari:7045 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If anyone of you saw a dream which he liked, then that was from 
Allah, and he should thank Allah for it and tell it to others; but if he saw something else, i.e, a dream 
which he did not like, then that is from Satan and he should seek refuge with Allah from it and should 
not tell it to anybody for it will not harm him."
Bukhari:7046 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I saw in a dream, a cloud having shade. Butter and honey 
were dropping from it and I saw the people gathering it in their hands, some gathering much and some 
a little. And behold, there was a rope extending from the earth to the sky, and I saw that you (the 
Prophet) held it and went up, and then another man held it and went up and (after that) another (third) 
held it and went up, and then after another (fourth) man held it, but it broke and then got connected 
again." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! Allow me to interpret 
this dream." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Interpret it." Abu Bakr said, "The cloud with shade symbolizes 
Islam, and the butter and honey dropping from it, symbolizes the Qur'an, its sweetness dropping and 
some people learning much of the Qur'an and some a little. The rope which is extended from the sky 
to the earth is the Truth which you (the Prophet) are following. You follow it and Allah will raise you 
high with it, and then another man will follow it and will rise up with it and another person will follow 
it and then another man will follow it but it will break and then it will be connected for him and he 
will rise up with it. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! Am I right or wrong?" The 
Prophet replied, "You are right in some of it and wrong in some." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Prophet! 
By Allah, you must tell me in what I was wrong." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear."
Bukhari:7047 Narrated Samura bin Jundub:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) very often used to ask his companions, "Did anyone of you see a dream?" So dreams 
would be narrated to him by those whom Allah wished to tell. 
One morning the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night two persons came to me (in a dream) and woke me up and 
said to me, 'Proceed!' I set out with them and we came across a man lying down, and behold, another 
man was standing over his head, holding a big rock. Behold, he was throwing the rock at the man's 
head, injuring it. The rock rolled away and the thrower followed it and took it back. By the time he 
reached the man, his head returned to the normal state. The thrower then did the same as he had done 
before. 
I said to my two companions, 'Subhan Allah! Who are these two persons?' They said, 'Proceed!' So 
we proceeded and came to a man lying flat on his back and another man standing over his head with 
an iron hook, and behold, he would put the hook in one side of the man's mouth and tear off that side 
of his face to the back (of the neck) and similarly tear his nose from front to back and his eye from 
front to back. Then he turned to the other side of the man's face and did just as he had done with the 
other side. He hardly completed this side when the other side returned to its normal state. Then he 
returned to it to repeat what he had done before. I said to my two companions, 'Subhan Allah! Who 
are these two persons?' They said to me, 'Proceed!' So we proceeded and came across something like a 
Tannur (a kind of baking oven, a pit usually clay-lined for baking bread)." I think the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In 
that oven there was much noise and voices." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "We looked into it and found naked 
men and women, and behold, a flame of fire was reaching to them from underneath, and when it 
reached them, they cried loudly. 
I asked them, 'Who are these?' They said to me, 'Proceed!' And so we proceeded and came across a 
river." I think he said, ".... red like blood." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "And behold, in the river there was a 
man swimming, and on the bank there was a man who had collected many stones. Behold, while the 
other man was swimming, he went near him. The former opened his mouth and the latter (on the 
bank) threw a stone into his mouth whereupon he went swimming again. He returned and every time 
the performance was repeated. 
I asked my two companions, 'Who are these (two) persons?' They replied, 'Proceed! Proceed!' And we 
proceeded till we came to a man with a repulsive appearance, the most repulsive appearance, you ever 
saw a man having! Beside him there was a fire and he was kindling it and running around it. 
I asked my companions, 'Who is this (man)?' They said to me, 'Proceed! Proceed!' So we proceeded 
till we reached a garden of deep green dense vegetation, having all sorts of spring colors. In the midst 
of the garden there was a very tall man and I could hardly see his head because of his great height, and 
around him there were children in such a large number as I have never seen. 
I said to my companions, 'Who is this?' They replied, 'Proceed! Proceed!' So we proceeded till we 
came to a majestic huge garden, greater and better than I have ever seen! My two companions said to 
me, 'Go up' and I went up. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "So we ascended till we reached a city built of gold and 
silver bricks and we went to its gate and asked (the gatekeeper) to open the gate, and it was opened 
and we entered the city and found in it, men with one side of their bodies as handsome as the 
handsomest person you have ever seen, and the other side as ugly as the ugliest person you have ever 
seen. My two companions ordered those men to throw themselves into the river. Behold, there was a 
river flowing across (the city), and its water was like milk in whiteness. 
Those men went and threw themselves in it and then returned to us after the ugliness (of their bodies) 
had disappeared and they became in the best shape." The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "My two companions 
(angels) said to me, 'This place is the Eden Paradise, and that is your place.' I raised up my sight, and 
behold, there I saw a palace like a white cloud! 
My two companions said to me, 'That (palace) is your place.' I said to them, 'May Allah bless you 
both! Let me enter it.' They replied, 'As for now, you will not enter it, but you shall enter it (one day). 
I said to them, 'I have seen many wonders tonight. What does all that mean which I have seen?' 
They replied, 'We will inform you: 
As for the first man you came upon whose head was being injured with the rock, he is the symbol of 
the one who studies the Qur'an and then neither recites it nor acts on its orders, and sleeps, neglecting 
the enjoined prayers. 
As for the man you came upon whose sides of mouth, nostrils and eyes were torn off from front to 
back, he is the symbol of the man who goes out of his house in the morning and tells so many lies that 
it spreads all over the world. And those naked men and women whom you saw in a construction 
resembling an oven, they are the adulterers and the adulteresses. 
And the man whom you saw swimming in the river and given a stone to swallow, is the eater of usury 
(Riba). 
And the bad looking man whom you saw near the fire kindling it and going round it, is Malik, the 
gatekeeper of Hell. 
And the tall man whom you saw in the garden, is Abraham and the children around him are those 
children who die with Al-Fitra (the Islamic Faith). 
The narrator added: Some Muslims asked the Prophet, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about the children of 
pagans?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "And also the children of pagans." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "My two companions added, 'The men you saw half handsome and half ugly were 
those persons who had mixed an act that was good with another that was bad, but Allah forgave 
them.'"
Bukhari:7048 Narrated Asma':The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be at my Lake-Fount (Kauthar) waiting for whoever will come to me. Then 
some people will be taken away from me whereupon I will say, 'My followers!' It will be said, 'You 
do not know they turned Apostates as renegades (deserted their religion).'" (Ibn Abi Mulaika said, 
"Allah, we seek refuge with You from turning on our heels from the (Islamic) religion and from being 
put to trial").
Bukhari:7049 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount (Kauthar) and some men amongst you 
will be brought to me, and when I will try to hand them some water, they will be pulled away from me 
by force whereupon I will say, 'O Lord, my companions!' Then the Almighty will say, 'You do not 
know what they did after you left, they introduced new things into the religion after you.'"
Bukhari:7050 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount (Kauthar), and whoever will 
come to it, will drink from it, and whoever will drink from it, will never become thirsty after that. 
There will come to me some people whom I know and they know me, and then a barrier will be set up 
between me and them."
Bukhari:7051 Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri added that the Prophet (ﷺ) further said:"I will say those 
people are from me. It will be said, 'You do not know what changes and new things they did after 
you.' Then I will say, 'Far removed (from mercy), far removed (from mercy), those who changed (the 
religion) after me!"
Bukhari:7052 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "You will see after me, selfishness (on the part of other people) and other 
matters that you will disapprove of." They asked, "What do you order us to do, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? 
(under such circumstances)?" He said, "Pay their rights to them (to the rulers) and ask your right from 
Allah."
Bukhari:7053 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever disapproves of something done by his ruler then he should be patient, for 
whoever disobeys the ruler even a little (little = a span) will die as those who died in the Pre-lslamic 
Period of Ignorance. (i.e. as rebellious Sinners).
Bukhari:7054 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever notices something which he dislikes done by his ruler, then he should be 
patient, for whoever becomes separate from the company of the Muslims even for a span and then 
dies, he will die as those who died in the Pre-lslamic period of Ignorance (as rebellious sinners). 
(Fath-ul-Bari page 112, Vol. 16)
Bukhari:7055 Narrated Junada bin Abi Umaiya:We entered upon 'Ubada bin As-Samit while he was sick. We said, "May Allah make you healthy. 
Will you tell us a Hadith you heard from the Prophet (ﷺ) and by which Allah may make you benefit?" He 
said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) called us and we gave him the Pledge of allegiance for Islam, and among the 
conditions on which he took the Pledge from us, was that we were to listen and obey (the orders) both 
at the time when we were active and at the time when we were tired, and at our difficult time and at 
our ease and to be obedient to the ruler and give him his right even if he did not give us our right, and 
not to fight against him unless we noticed him having open Kufr (disbelief) for which we would have 
a proof with us from Allah."
Bukhari:7056 Narrated Junada bin Abi Umaiya:We entered upon 'Ubada bin As-Samit while he was sick. We said, "May Allah make you healthy. 
Will you tell us a Hadith you heard from the Prophet (ﷺ) and by which Allah may make you benefit?" He 
said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) called us and we gave him the Pledge of allegiance for Islam, and among the 
conditions on which he took the Pledge from us, was that we were to listen and obey (the orders) both 
at the time when we were active and at the time when we were tired, and at our difficult time and at 
our ease and to be obedient to the ruler and give him his right even if he did not give us our right, and 
not to fight against him unless we noticed him having open Kufr (disbelief) for which we would have 
a proof with us from Allah."
Bukhari:7057 Narrated Usaid bin Hudair:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You appointed such-and-such person and 
you did not appoint me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "After me you will see rulers not giving you your right 
(but you should give them their right) and be patient till you meet me."
Bukhari:7058 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the truthful and trusted by Allah (i.e., the Prophet (ﷺ) ) saying, "The destruction of my followers 
will be through the hands of young men from Quraish."
Bukhari:7059 Narrated Zainab bint Jahsh:The Prophet (ﷺ) got up from his sleep with a flushed red face and said, "None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah. Woe to the Arabs, from the Great evil that is nearly approaching them. Today a 
gap has been made in the wall of Gog and Magog like this." (Sufyan illustrated by this forming the 
number 90 or 100 with his fingers.) It was asked, "Shall we be destroyed though there are righteous 
people among us?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, if evil increased."
Bukhari:7060 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) stood over one of the high buildings of Medina and then said (to the people), "Do 
you see what I see?" They said, "No." He said, "I see afflictions falling among your houses as rain 
drops fall."
Bukhari:7061 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Time will pass rapidly, good deeds will decrease, miserliness will be thrown (in the 
hearts of the people) afflictions will appear and there will be much 'Al-Harj." They said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! What is "Al-Harj?" He said, "Killing! Killing!" (See Hadith No. 63, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7062 Narrated `Abdullah and Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour there will be days during which Religious 
ignorance will spread, knowledge will be taken away (vanish) and there will be much Al-Harj, and Al- 
Harj means killing."
Bukhari:7063 Narrated `Abdullah and Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour there will be days during which Religious 
ignorance will spread, knowledge will be taken away (vanish) and there will be much Al-Harj, and Al- 
Harj means killing."
Bukhari:7064 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour there will be days during which (religious) 
knowledge will be taken away (vanish) and general ignorance will spread, and there will be Al-Harj in 
abundance, and Al-Harj means killing."
Bukhari:7065 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said...(as above, 185). And Harj, in the Ethiopian language, means killing.
Bukhari:7066 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour, there will be the days of Al-Harj, and the 
religious knowledge will be taken away (vanish i.e. by the death of Religious scholars) and general 
ignorance will spread." Abu Musa said, "Al-Harj, in the Ethiopian language, means killing."
Bukhari:7067 Ibn Mas`ud added:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying; (It will be) from among the most wicked people who 
will be living at the time when the Hour will be established."
Bukhari:7068 Narrated Az-Zubair bin `Adi:We went to Anas bin Malik and complained about the wrong we were suffering at the hand of Al- 
Hajjaj. Anas bin Malik said, "Be patient till you meet your Lord, for no time will come upon you but 
the time following it will be worse than it. I heard that from the Prophet."
Bukhari:7069 Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) woke up one night in a state of terror and said, "Subhan 
Allah, How many treasures Allah has sent down! And how many afflictions have been sent down! 
Who will go and wake the lady dwellers (wives of the Prophet) up of these rooms (for prayers)?" He 
meant his wives, so that they might pray. He added, "A well-dressed (soul) in this world may be naked 
in the Hereafter."
Bukhari:7070 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes up arms against us, is not from us."
Bukhari:7071 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes up arms against us, is not from us."
Bukhari:7072 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should point out towards his Muslim brother with a weapon, for he 
does not know, Satan may tempt him to hit him and thus he would fall into a pit of fire (Hell)"
Bukhari:7073 Narrated Sufyan:I said to `Amr, "O Abu Muhammad! Did you hear Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'A man carrying arrows 
passed through the mosque and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, 'Hold the arrows by their heads! "`Amr 
replied, "Yes."
Bukhari:7074 Narrated Jabir:A man passed through the mosque and he was carrying arrows, the heads of which were exposed 
(protruding). The man was ordered (by the Prophet) to hold the iron heads so that it might not scratch 
(injure) any Muslim.
Bukhari:7075 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you passed through our mosque or through our market while carrying 
arrows, he should hold the iron heads," or said, "..... he should hold (their heads) firmly with his hand 
lest he should injure one of the Muslims with it."
Bukhari:7076 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet, said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (evil doing) and killing him is Kufr (disbelief).
Bukhari:7077 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not revert to disbelief after me by striking (cutting) the necks of one 
another."
Bukhari:7078 Narrated Abu Bakra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed the people saying, "Don't you know what is the day today?" They replied, 
"Allah and His Apostle know better." We thought that he might give that day another name. The 
Prophet said, "Isn't it the day of An-Nahr?" We replied, "Yes. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He then said, "What 
town is this? Isn't it the forbidden (Sacred) Town (Mecca)?" We replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He 
then said, "Your blood, your properties, your honors and your skins (i.e., bodies) are as sacred to one 
another like the sanctity of this day of yours in this month of yours in this town of yours. (Listen) 
Haven't I conveyed Allah's message to you?" We replied, "Yes" He said, "O Allah! Be witness (for it). 
So it is incumbent upon those who are present to convey it (this message of mine) to those who are 
absent because the informed one might comprehend what I have said better than the present audience 
who will convey it to him.)" The narrator added: In fact, it was like that. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Beware! 
Do not renegade as disbelievers after me by striking (cutting) the necks of one another."
Bukhari:7079 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Beware! Do not renegade as (disbelievers) after me by striking (cutting) the necks 
of one another."
Bukhari:7080 Narrated Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me during Hajjat-al-Wada`, "Let the people keep quiet and listen." Then he said 
(addressing the people), "Beware! Do not renegade as disbelievers after me by striking (cutting) the 
necks of one another."
Bukhari:7081 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be afflictions (in the near future) during which a sitting person will 
be better than a standing one, and the standing one will be better than the walking one, and the 
walking one will be better than the running one, and whoever will expose himself to these afflictions, 
they will destroy him. So whoever can find a place of protection or refuge from them, should take 
shelter in it."
Bukhari:7082 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be afflictions (in the near future) during which a sitting person will 
be better than a standing one, and the standing one will be better than a walking one, and the walking 
one will be better than a running one, and whoever will expose himself to these afflictions, they will 
destroy him. So whoever can find a place of protection or refuge from them, should take shelter in it."
Bukhari:7083 Narrated Al-Hasan:(Al-Ahnaf said:) I went out carrying my arms during the nights of the affliction (i.e. the war between 
`Ali and `Aisha) and Abu Bakra met me and asked, "Where are you going?" I replied, "I intend to help 
the cousin of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (i.e.,`Ali)." Abu Bakra said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If two Muslims take 
out their swords to fight each other, then both of them will be from amongst the people of the Hell- 
Fire.' It was said to the Prophet, 'It is alright for the killer but what about the killed one?' He replied, 
'The killed one had the intention to kill his opponent.'" (See Hadith No. 30, Vol. 1)Narrated Al-Ahnaf:Abu Bakra said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said (as above, 204).
Bukhari:7084 Narrated Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman:The people used to ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the good but I used to ask him about the evil lest I 
should be overtaken by them. So I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We were living in ignorance and in an 
(extremely) worst atmosphere, then Allah brought to us this good (i.e., Islam); will there be any evil 
after this good?" He said, "Yes." I said, 'Will there be any good after that evil?" He replied, "Yes, but 
it will be tainted (not pure.)'' I asked, "What will be its taint?" He replied, "(There will be) some 
people who will guide others not according to my tradition? You will approve of some of their deeds 
and disapprove of some others." I asked, "Will there be any evil after that good?" He replied, "Yes, 
(there will be) some people calling at the gates of the (Hell) Fire, and whoever will respond to their 
call, will be thrown by them into the (Hell) Fire." I said, "O Allah s Apostle! Will you describe them 
to us?" He said, "They will be from our own people and will speak our language." I said, "What do 
you order me to do if such a state should take place in my life?" He said, "Stick to the group of 
Muslims and their Imam (ruler)." I said, "If there is neither a group of Muslims nor an Imam (ruler)?" 
He said, "Then turn away from all those sects even if you were to bite (eat) the roots of a tree till death 
overtakes you while you are in that state."
Bukhari:7085 Narrated Abu Al-Aswad:An army unit was being recruited from the people of Medina and my name was written among them. 
Then I met `Ikrima, and when I informed him about it, he discouraged me very strongly and said, "Ibn 
`Abbas told me that there were some Muslims who were with the pagans to increase their number 
against Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (and the Muslim army) so arrows (from the Muslim army) would hit one of 
them and kill him or a Muslim would strike him (with his sword) and kill him. So Allah revealed:-- 
'Verily! As for those whom the angels take (in death) while they are wronging themselves (by staying 
among the disbelievers).' (4.97)
Bukhari:7086 Narrated Hudhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) related to us, two prophetic narrations one of which I have seen fulfilled and I am 
waiting for the fulfillment of the other. The Prophet (ﷺ) told us that the virtue of honesty descended in the 
roots of men's hearts (from Allah) and then they learned it from the Qur'an and then they learned it 
from the Sunna (the Prophet's traditions). The Prophet (ﷺ) further told us how that honesty will be taken 
away: He said: "Man will go to sleep during which honesty will be taken away from his heart and only 
its trace will remain in his heart like the trace of a dark spot; then man will go to sleep, during which 
honesty will decrease further still, so that its trace will resemble the trace of blister as when an ember 
is dropped on one's foot which would make it swell, and one would see it swollen but there would be 
nothing inside. People would be carrying out their trade but hardly will there be a trustworthy person. 
It will be said, 'in such-and-such tribe there is an honest man,' and later it will be said about some man, 
'What a wise, polite and strong man he is!' Though he will not have faith equal even to a mustard seed 
in his heart." No doubt, there came upon me a time when I did not mind dealing (bargaining) with 
anyone of you, for if he was a Muslim his Islam would compel him to pay me what is due to me, and 
if he was a Christian, the Muslim official would compel him to pay me what is due to me, but today I 
do not deal except with such-and-such person.
Bukhari:7087 Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:That he visited Al-Hajjaj (bin Yusuf). Al-Hajjaj said, "O son of Al-Akwa`! You have turned on your 
heels (i.e., deserted Islam) by staying (in the desert) with the bedouins." Salama replied, "No, but 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed me to stay with the bedouin in the desert." Narrated Yazid bin Abi Ubaid: 
When `Uthman bin `Affan was killed (martyred), Salama bin Al-Akwa` went out to a place called Ar- 
Rabadha and married there and begot children, and he stayed there till a few nights before his death 
when he came to Medina.
Bukhari:7088 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will come a time when the best property of a Muslim will be sheep which 
he will take to the tops of mountains and the places of rainfall so as to flee with his religion from the 
afflictions.
Bukhari:7089 Narrated Anas:The people started asking the Prophet (ﷺ) too many questions importunately. So one day he ascended the 
pulpit and said, "You will not ask me any question but I will explain it to you." I looked right and left, 
and behold, every man was covering his head with his garment and weeping. Then got up a man who, 
whenever quarreling with somebody, used to be accused of not being the son of his father. He said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Your father is Hudhaifa." Then `Umar got 
up and said, "We accept Allah as our Lord, Islam as our religion and Muhammad as our Apostle and 
we seek refuge with Allah from the evil of afflictions." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " I have never seen the good 
and bad like on this day. No doubt, Paradise and Hell was displayed in front of me till I saw them in 
front of that wall," Qatada said: This Hadith used to be mentioned as an explanation of this Verse:-- 'O 
you who believe! Ask not questions about things which, if made plain to you, may cause you trouble.' 
(5.101)
Bukhari:7090 The the above hadith was narrated by Anas through another chain and said (with the wording) "and every man had his head wrapped in his garment and weeping".  And he said (with the wording) "seeking refuge with Allah from the evil of afflictions" or he said "I seek refuge with Allah from the evil of afflictions."
Bukhari:7091 Narrated Anas:The above hadith is narrated on the authority of Anas thorugh another chain and he said (with the wording) "seeking refuge with Allah from the evil of afflictions."
Bukhari:7092 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up beside the pulpit (and pointed with his finger towards the East) and said, 
"Afflictions are there! Afflictions are there, from where the side of the head of Satan comes out," or 
said, "..the side of the sun.."
Bukhari:7093 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was facing the East, saying, "Verily! Afflictions are there, from 
where the side of the head of Satan comes out."
Bukhari:7094 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow Your blessings on our Sham! O Allah! Bestow Your blessings on 
our Yemen." The People said, "And also on our Najd." He said, "O Allah! Bestow Your blessings on 
our Sham (north)! O Allah! Bestow Your blessings on our Yemen." The people said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! And also on our Najd." I think the third time the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There (in Najd) is the place 
of earthquakes and afflictions and from there comes out the side of the head of Satan."
Bukhari:7095 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:`Abdullah bin `Umar came to us and we hoped that he would narrate to us a good Hadith. But before 
we asked him, a man got up and said to him, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! Narrate to us about the battles 
during the time of the afflictions, as Allah says:-- 
'And fight them until there is no more afflictions (i.e. no more worshipping of others besides Allah).'" 
(2.193) Ibn `Umar said (to the man), "Do you know what is meant by afflictions? Let your mother 
bereave you! Muhammad used to fight against the pagans, for a Muslim was put to trial in his religion 
(The pagans will either kill him or chain him as a captive). His fighting was not like your fighting 
which is carried on for the sake of ruling."
Bukhari:7096 Narrated Shaqiq:I heard Hudhaifa saying, "While we were sitting with `Umar, he said, 'Who among you remembers the 
statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) about the afflictions?' Hudhaifa said, "The affliction of a man in his family, 
his property, his children and his neighbors are expiated by his prayers, Zakat (and alms) and 
enjoining good and forbidding evil." `Umar said, "I do not ask you about these afflictions, but about 
those afflictions which will move like the waves of the sea." Hudhaifa said, "Don't worry about it, O 
chief of the believers, for there is a closed door between you and them." `Umar said, "Will that door 
be broken or opened?" I said, "No. it will be broken." `Umar said, "Then it will never be closed," I 
said, "Yes." We asked Hudhaifa, "Did `Umar know what that door meant?" He replied, "Yes, as I 
know that there will be night before tomorrow morning, that is because I narrated to him a true 
narration free from errors." We dared not ask Hudhaifa as to whom the door represented so we 
ordered Masruq to ask him what does the door stand for? He replied, "`Umar."
Bukhari:7097 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to one of the gardens of Medina for some business and I went out to follow him. 
When he entered the garden, I sat at its gate and said to myself, "To day I will be the gatekeeper of the 
Prophet though he has not ordered me." The Prophet (ﷺ) went and finished his need and went to sit on the 
constructed edge of the well and uncovered his legs and hung them in the well. In the meantime Abu 
Bakr came and asked permission to enter. I said (to him), "Wait till I get you permission." Abu Bakr 
waited outside and I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Prophet! Abu Bakr asks your permission 
to enter." He said, "Admit him, and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise." So Abu Bakr 
entered and sat on the right side of the Prophet (ﷺ) and uncovered his legs and hung them in the well. 
Then `Umar came and I said (to him), "Wait till I get you permission." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him 
and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise." So `Umar entered and sat on the left side of the 
Prophet and uncovered his legs and hung them in the well so that one side of the well became fully 
occupied and there remained no place for any-one to sit. Then `Uthman came and I said (to him), 
"Wait till I get permission for you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him and give him the glad tidings of 
entering Paradise with a calamity which will befall him." When he entered, he could not find any 
place to sit with them so he went to the other edge of the well opposite them and uncovered his legs 
and hung them in the well. I wished that a brother of mine would come, so I invoked Allah for his 
coming. (Ibn Al-Musaiyab said, "I interpreted that (narration) as indicating their graves. The first three 
are together and the grave of `Uthman is separate from theirs.")
Bukhari:7098 Narrated Abu Wail:Someone said to Usama, "Will you not talk to this (Uthman)?" Usama said, "I talked to him (secretly) 
without being the first man to open an evil door. I will never tell a ruler who rules over two men or 
more that he is good after I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'A man will be brought and put in Hell (Fire) 
and he will circumambulate (go around and round) in Hell (Fire) like a donkey of a (flour) grinding 
mill, and all the people of Hell (Fire) will gather around him and will say to him, O so-and-so! Didn't 
you use to order others for good and forbid them from evil?' That man will say, 'I used to order others 
to do good but I myself never used to do it, and I used to forbid others from evil while I myself used to 
do evil.' "
Bukhari:7099 Narrated Abu Bakra:During the battle of Al-Jamal, Allah benefited me with a Word (I heard from the Prophet). When the 
Prophet heard the news that the people of the Persia had made the daughter of Khosrau their Queen 
(ruler), he said, "Never will succeed such a nation as makes a woman their ruler."
Bukhari:7100 Narrated Abu Maryam `Abdullah bin Ziyad Al-Aasadi:When Talha, AzZubair and `Aisha moved to Basra, `Ali sent `Ammar bin Yasir and Hasan bin `Ali 
who came to us at Kufa and ascended the pulpit. Al-Hasan bin `Ali was at the top of the pulpit and 
`Ammar was below Al-Hasan. We all gathered before him. I heard `Ammar saying, "`Aisha has 
moved to Al-Busra. By Allah! She is the wife of your Prophet in this world and in the Hereafter. But 
Allah has put you to test whether you obey Him (Allah) or her (`Aisha).
Bukhari:7101 Narrated Abu Wail:`Ammar stood on the pulpit at Kufa and mentioned `Aisha and her coming (to Busra) and said, "She is 
the wife of your Prophet in this world and in the Hereafter, but you people are being put to test in this 
issue."
Bukhari:7102 Narrated Abu Wail:Abu Musa and Abii Mas`ud went to `Ammar when `Ali had sent him to Kufa to exhort them to fight 
(on `Ali's side). They said to him, "Since you have become a Muslim, we have never seen you doing a 
deed more criticizable to us than your haste in this matter." `Ammar said, "Since you (both) became 
Muslims, I have never seen you doing a deed more criticizable to me than your keeping away from 
this matter." Then Abu Mas`ud provided `Ammar and Abu Musa with two-piece outfits to wear, and 
one of them went to the mosque (of Kufa).
Bukhari:7103 Narrated Abu Wail:Abu Musa and Abii Mas`ud went to `Ammar when `Ali had sent him to Kufa to exhort them to fight 
(on `Ali's side). They said to him, "Since you have become a Muslim, we have never seen you doing a 
deed more criticizable to us than your haste in this matter." `Ammar said, "Since you (both) became 
Muslims, I have never seen you doing a deed more criticizable to me than your keeping away from 
this matter." Then Abu Mas`ud provided `Ammar and Abu Musa with two-piece outfits to wear, and 
one of them went to the mosque (of Kufa).
Bukhari:7104 Narrated Abu Wail:Abu Musa and Abii Mas`ud went to `Ammar when `Ali had sent him to Kufa to exhort them to fight 
(on `Ali's side). They said to him, "Since you have become a Muslim, we have never seen you doing a 
deed more criticizable to us than your haste in this matter." `Ammar said, "Since you (both) became 
Muslims, I have never seen you doing a deed more criticizable to me than your keeping away from 
this matter." Then Abu Mas`ud provided `Ammar and Abu Musa with two-piece outfits to wear, and 
one of them went to the mosque (of Kufa).
Bukhari:7105 Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama:I was sitting with Abu Mas`ud and Abu Musa and `Ammar. Abu Mas`ud said (to `Ammar), "There is 
none of your companions but, if I wish, I could find fault with him except with you. Since you joined 
the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) I have never seen anything done by you more criticizable by me than your 
haste in this issue." `Ammar said, O Abu Mas`ud ! I have never seen anything done by you or by this 
companion of yours (i.e., Abu Musa) more criticizable by me than your keeping away from this issue 
since the time you both joined the company of the Prophet." 
Then Abu Mas`ud who was a rich man, said (to his servant), "O boy! Bring two suits." Then he gave 
one to Abu Musa and the other to `Ammar and said (to them), "Put on these suits before going for the 
Friday prayer. "
Bukhari:7106 Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama:I was sitting with Abu Mas`ud and Abu Musa and `Ammar. Abu Mas`ud said (to `Ammar), "There is 
none of your companions but, if I wish, I could find fault with him except with you. Since you joined 
the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) I have never seen anything done by you more criticizable by me than your 
haste in this issue." `Ammar said, O Abu Mas`ud ! I have never seen anything done by you or by this 
companion of yours (i.e., Abu Musa) more criticizable by me than your keeping away from this issue 
since the time you both joined the company of the Prophet." 
Then Abu Mas`ud who was a rich man, said (to his servant), "O boy! Bring two suits." Then he gave 
one to Abu Musa and the other to `Ammar and said (to them), "Put on these suits before going for the 
Friday prayer. "
Bukhari:7107 Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama:I was sitting with Abu Mas`ud and Abu Musa and `Ammar. Abu Mas`ud said (to `Ammar), "There is 
none of your companions but, if I wish, I could find fault with him except with you. Since you joined 
the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) I have never seen anything done by you more criticizable by me than your 
haste in this issue." `Ammar said, O Abu Mas`ud ! I have never seen anything done by you or by this 
companion of yours (i.e., Abu Musa) more criticizable by me than your keeping away from this issue 
since the time you both joined the company of the Prophet." 
Then Abu Mas`ud who was a rich man, said (to his servant), "O boy! Bring two suits." Then he gave 
one to Abu Musa and the other to `Ammar and said (to them), "Put on these suits before going for the 
Friday prayer. "
Bukhari:7108 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah sends punishment upon a nation then it befalls upon the whole 
population indiscriminately and then they will be resurrected (and judged) according to their deeds. "
Bukhari:7109 Narrated Al-Hasan Al-Basri:When Al-Hasan bin `Ali moved with army units against Muawiya, `Amr bin AL-As said to Muawiya, 
"I see an army that will not retreat unless and until the opposing army retreats." Muawiya said, "(If the 
Muslims are killed) who will look after their children?" `Amr bin Al-As said: I (will look after them). 
On that, `Abdullah bin 'Amir and `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura said, "Let us meet Muawaiya and 
suggest peace." Al-Hasan Al-Basri added: No doubt, I heard that Abu Bakra said, "Once while the 
Prophet was addressing (the people), Al-Hasan (bin `Ali) came and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'This son of mine 
is a chief, and Allah may make peace between two groups of Muslims through him."
Bukhari:7110 Narrated Harmala:(Usama's Maula) Usama (bin Zaid) sent me to `Ali (at Kufa) and said, "`Ali will ask you, 'What has 
prevented your companion from joining me?' You then should say to him, 'If you (`Ali) were in the 
mouth of a lion, I would like to be with you, but in this matter I won't take any part.' " Harmala added: 
"`Ali didn't give me anything (when I conveyed the message to him) so I went to Hasan, Hussain and 
Ibn Ja`far and they loaded my camels with much (wealth).
Bukhari:7111 Narrated Nafi`:When the people of Medina dethroned Yazid bin Muawiya, Ibn `Umar gathered his special friends 
and children and said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'A flag will be fixed for every betrayer on the Day 
of Resurrection,' and we have given the oath of allegiance to this person (Yazid) in accordance with 
the conditions enjoined by Allah and His Apostle and I do not know of anything more faithless than 
fighting a person who has been given the oath of allegiance in accordance with the conditions 
enjoined by Allah and His Apostle , and if ever I learn that any person among you has agreed to 
dethrone Yazid, by giving the oath of allegiance (to somebody else) then there will be separation 
between him and me."
Bukhari:7112 Narrated Abu Al-Minhal:When Ibn Ziyad and Marwan were in Sham and Ibn Az-Zubair took over the authority in Mecca and 
Qurra' (the Kharijites) revolted in Basra, I went out with my father to Abu Barza Al-Aslami till we 
entered upon him in his house while he was sitting in the shade of a room built of cane. So we sat with 
him and my father started talking to him saying, "O Abu Barza! Don't you see in what dilemma the 
people has fallen?" The first thing heard him saying "I seek reward from Allah for myself because of 
being angry and scornful at the Quraish tribe. O you Arabs! You know very well that you were in 
misery and were few in number and misguided, and that Allah has brought you out of all that with 
Islam and with Muhammad till He brought you to this state (of prosperity and happiness) which you 
see now; and it is this worldly wealth and pleasures which has caused mischief to appear among you. 
The one who is in Sham (i.e., Marwan), by Allah, is not fighting except for the sake of worldly gain: 
and those who are among you, by Allah, are not fighting except for the sake of worldly gain; and that 
one who is in Mecca (i.e., Ibn Az-Zubair) by Allah, is not fighting except for the sake of worldly 
gain."
Bukhari:7113 Narrated Abi Waih:Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman said, 'The hypocrites of today are worse than those of the lifetime of the 
Prophet, because in those days they used to do evil deeds secretly but today they do such deeds 
openly.'
Bukhari:7114 Narrated Abi Asha'sha:Hudhaifa said, 'In fact, it was hypocrisy that existed in the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) but today it is Kufr 
(disbelief) after belief.'
Bukhari:7115 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till a man passes by a grave of somebody and 
says, 'Would that I were in his place.' "
Bukhari:7116 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till the buttocks of the women of the tribe of 
Daus move while going round Dhi-al-Khalasa." Dhi-al-Khalasa was the idol of the Daus tribe which 
they used to worship in the Pre Islamic Period of ignorance.
Bukhari:7117 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till a man from Qahtan appears, driving the 
people with his stick."
Bukhari:7118 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till a fire will come out of the land of Hijaz, 
and it will throw light on the necks of the camels at Busra."
Bukhari:7119 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Soon the river "Euphrates" will disclose the treasure (the mountain) of gold, so 
whoever will be present at that time should not take anything of it." Al-A'raj narrated from Abii 
Huraira that the Prophet (ﷺ) said the same but he said, "It (Euphrates) will uncover a mountain of gold 
(under it).
Bukhari:7120 Narrated Haritha bin Wahb:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Give in charity because there will come a time on the people when a 
person will go out with his alms from place to place but will not find anybody to accept it."
Bukhari:7121 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established (1) till two big groups fight each other 
whereupon there will be a great number of casualties on both sides and they will be following one and 
the same religious doctrine, (2) till about thirty Dajjals (liars) appear, and each one of them will claim 
that he is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), (3) till the religious knowledge is taken away (by the death of Religious 
scholars) (4) earthquakes will increase in number (5) time will pass quickly, (6) afflictions will 
appear, (7) Al-Harj, (i.e., killing) will increase, (8) till wealth will be in abundance ---- so abundant 
that a wealthy person will worry lest nobody should accept his Zakat, and whenever he will present it 
to someone, that person (to whom it will be offered) will say, 'I am not in need of it, (9) till the people 
compete with one another in constructing high buildings, (10) till a man when passing by a grave of 
someone will say, 'Would that I were in his place (11) and till the sun rises from the West. So when 
the sun will rise and the people will see it (rising from the West) they will all believe (embrace Islam) 
but that will be the time when: (As Allah said,) 'No good will it do to a soul to believe then, if it 
believed not before, nor earned good (by deeds of righteousness) through its Faith.' (6.158) And the 
Hour will be established while two men spreading a garment in front of them but they will not be able 
to sell it, nor fold it up; and the Hour will be established when a man has milked his she-camel and has 
taken away the milk but he will not be able to drink it; and the Hour will be established before a man 
repairing a tank (for his livestock) is able to water (his animals) in it; and the Hour will be established 
when a person has raised a morsel (of food) to his mouth but will not be able to eat it."
Bukhari:7122 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:Nobody asked the Prophet (ﷺ) as many questions as I asked regarding Ad-Dajjal. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, 
"What worries you about him?" I said, "Because the people say that he will have a mountain of bread 
and a river of water with him (i.e. he will have abundance of food and water)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nay, 
he is too mean to be allowed such a thing by Allah"' (but it is only to test mankind whether they 
believe in Allah or in Ad-Dajjal.)
Bukhari:7123 Narrated Ibn 'Umar (ra) :The Prophet (ﷺ) said (about Ad-Dajjal) that he is one eyed, his right eye is as if a protruding out grape."
Bukhari:7124 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come and encamp at a place close to Medina and then Medina will 
shake thrice whereupon every Kafir (disbeliever) and hypocrite will go out (of Medina) towards him."
Bukhari:7125 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The terror caused by Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal will not enter Medina and at that time 
Medina will have seven gates and there will be two angels at each gate (guarding them).
Bukhari:7126 Narrated Abu Bakra:[as above]
Bukhari:7127 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up amongst the people and then praised and glorified Allah as He deserved and 
then he mentioned Ad-Dajjal, saying, "I warn you of him, and there was no prophet but warned his 
followers of him; but I will tell you something about him which no prophet has told his followers: Ad- 
Dajjal is one-eyed whereas Allah is not."
Bukhari:7128 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. "While I was sleeping, I saw myself (in a dream) performing Tawaf around the 
Ka`ba. Behold, I saw a reddish-white man with lank hair, and water was dropping from his head. I 
asked, "Who is this?' They replied, 'The son of Mary.' Then I turned my face to see another man with 
a huge body, red complexion and curly hair and blind in one eye. His eye looked like a protruding out 
grape. They said (to me), He is Ad-Dajjal." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The man he resembled most is Ibn 
Qatan, a man from the tribe of Khuza`a. "
Bukhari:7129 Narrated `Aisha:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his prayer, seeking refuge with Allah from the afflictions of Ad-Dajjal.
Bukhari:7130 Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said about Ad-Dajjal that he would have water and fire with him: (what would seem to 
be) fire, would be cold water and (what would seem to be) water, would be fire.
Bukhari:7131 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No prophet was sent but that he warned his followers against the one-eyed liar 
(Ad-Dajjal). Beware! He is blind in one eye, and your Lord is not so, and there will be written 
between his (Ad-Dajjal's) eyes (the word) Kafir (i.e., disbeliever)." (This Hadith is also quoted by Abu 
Huraira and Ibn `Abbas).
Bukhari:7132 Narrated Abu Sa`id:One day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) narrated to us a long narration about Ad-Dajjal and among the things he 
narrated to us, was: "Ad-Dajjal will come, and he will be forbidden to enter the mountain passes of 
Medina. He will encamp in one of the salt areas neighboring Medina and there will appear to him a 
man who will be the best or one of the best of the people. He will say 'I testify that you are Ad-Dajjal 
whose story Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has told us.' Ad-Dajjal will say (to his audience), 'Look, if I kill this man 
and then give him life, will you have any doubt about my claim?' They will reply, 'No,' Then Ad- 
Dajjal will kill that man and then will make him alive. The man will say, 'By Allah, now I recognize 
you more than ever!' Ad-Dajjal will then try to kill him (again) but he will not be given the power to 
do so."
Bukhari:7133 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are angels at the mountain passes of Medina (so that) neither plague nor 
Ad-Dajjal can enter it.'
Bukhari:7134 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come to Medina and find the angels guarding it. So Allah willing, 
neither Ad-Dajjal, nor plague will be able to come near it."
Bukhari:7135 Narrated Zainab bint Jahsh:That one day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon her in a state of fear and said, "None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah! Woe to the Arabs from the Great evil that has approached (them). Today a hole 
has been opened in the dam of Gog and Magog like this." The Prophet (ﷺ) made a circle with his index 
finger and thumb. Zainab bint Jahsh added: I said, "O Alllah's Apostle! Shall we be destroyed though 
there will be righteous people among us?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, if the (number) of evil (persons) 
increased."
Bukhari:7136 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A hole has been opened in the dam of Gog and Magog." Wuhaib (the sub-narrator) 
made the number 90 (with his index finger and thumb).
Bukhari:7137 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever obeys me, obeys Allah, and whoever disobeys me, disobeys Allah, 
and whoever obeys the ruler I appoint, obeys me, and whoever disobeys him, disobeys me."
Bukhari:7138 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Surely! Everyone of you is a guardian and is responsible for his charges: The 
Imam (ruler) of the people is a guardian and is responsible for his subjects; a man is the guardian of 
his family (household) and is responsible for his subjects; a woman is the guardian of her husband's 
home and of his children and is responsible for them; and the slave of a man is a guardian of his 
master's property and is responsible for it. Surely, everyone of you is a guardian and responsible for 
his charges."
Bukhari:7139 Narrated Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut`im:That while he was included in a delegation of Quraish staying with Muawiya, Muawiya heard that 
`Abdullah bin `Amr had said that there would be a king from Qahtan tribe, whereupon he became very 
angry. He stood up, and after glorifying and praising Allah as He deserved, said, "To proceed, I have 
come to know that some of you men are narrating things which are neither in Allah's Book, nor has 
been mentioned by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . Such people are the ignorant among you. Beware of such vain 
desires that mislead those who have them. I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'This matter (of the 
caliphate) will remain with the Quraish, and none will rebel against them, but Allah will throw him 
down on his face as long as they stick to the rules and regulations of the religion (Islam).'"
Bukhari:7140 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This matter (caliphate) will remain with the Quraish even if only two of them 
were still existing."
Bukhari:7141 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not wish to be like anyone, except in two cases: (1) A man whom Allah has 
given wealth and he spends it righteously. (2) A man whom Allah has given wisdom (knowledge of 
the Qur'an and the Hadith) and he acts according to it and teaches it to others."
Bukhari:7142 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You should listen to and obey, your ruler even if he was an Ethiopian (black) 
slave whose head looks like a raisin."
Bukhari:7143 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody sees his Muslim ruler doing something he disapproves of, he should 
be patient, for whoever becomes separate from the Muslim group even for a span and then dies, he 
will die as those who died in the Pre-lslamic period of ignorance (as rebellious sinners). (See Hadith 
No. 176 and 177)
Bukhari:7144 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim has to listen to and obey (the order of his ruler) whether he likes it or 
not, as long as his orders involve not one in disobedience (to Allah), but if an act of disobedience (to 
Allah) is imposed one should not listen to it or obey it. (See Hadith No. 203, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:7145 Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent an army unit (for some campaign) and appointed a man from the Ansar as its 
commander and ordered them (the soldiers) to obey him. (During the campaign) he became angry 
with them and said, "Didn't the Prophet (ﷺ) order you to obey me?" They said, "Yes." He said, "I order 
you to collect wood and make a fire and then throw yourselves into it." So they collected wood and 
made a fire, but when they were about to throw themselves into, it they started looking at each other, 
and some of them said, "We followed the Prophet (ﷺ) to escape from the fire. How should we enter it 
now?" So while they were in that state, the fire extinguished and their commander's anger abated. The 
event was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "If they had entered it (the fire) they would never 
have come out of it, for obedience is required only in what is good." (See Hadith No. 629. Vol. 5)
Bukhari:7146 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdur-Rahman! Do not seek to be a ruler, for if you are given authority on your 
demand then you will be held responsible for it, but if you are given it without asking (for it), then you 
will be helped (by Allah) in it. If you ever take an oath to do something and later on you find that 
something else is better, then you should expiate your oath and do what is better."
Bukhari:7147 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura! Do not seek to be a ruler, for if you are given 
authority on your demand, you will be held responsible for it, but if you are given it without asking for 
it, then you will be helped (by Allah) in it. If you ever take an oath to do something and later on you 
find that something else is better, then do what is better and make expiation for your oath."
Bukhari:7148 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You people will be keen to have the authority of ruling which will be a thing of 
regret for you on the Day of Resurrection. What an excellent wet nurse it is, yet what a bad weaning 
one it is!"
Bukhari:7149 Narrated Abu Musa:Two men from my tribe and I entered upon the Prophet. One of the two men said to the Prophet, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Appoint me as a governor," and so did the second. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We do not 
assign the authority of ruling to those who ask for it, nor to those who are keen to have it."
Bukhari:7150 Narrated Ma'qil:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Any man whom Allah has given the authority of ruling some people and 
he does not look after them in an honest manner, will never feel even the smell of Paradise."
Bukhari:7151 Narrated Ma'qil:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any ruler having the authority to rule Muslim subjects dies while he is 
deceiving them, Allah will forbid Paradise for him."
Bukhari:7152 Narrated Tarif Abi Tamima:I saw Safwan and Jundab and Safwan's companions when Jundab was advising. They said, "Did you 
hear something from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Jundab said, "I heard him saying, 'Whoever does a good deed 
in order to show off, Allah will expose his intentions on the Day of Resurrection (before the people), 
and whoever puts the people into difficulties, Allah will put him into difficulties on the Day of 
Resurrection.'" The people said (to Jundab), "Advise us." He said, "The first thing of the human body 
to purify is the `Abdomen, so he who can eat nothing but good food (Halal and earned lawfully) 
should do so, and he who does as much as he can that nothing intervene between him and Paradise by 
not shedding even a handful of blood, (i.e. murdering) should do so."
Bukhari:7153 Narrated Anas bin Malik:While the Prophet (ﷺ) and I were coming out of the mosque, a man met us outside the gate. The man said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! When will be the Hour?" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "What have you prepared for 
it?" The man became afraid and ashamed and then said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I haven't prepared for it 
much of fasts, prayers or charitable gifts but I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You 
will be with the one whom you love."
Bukhari:7154 Narrated Thabit Al-Bunani:Anas bin Malik said to a woman of his family, "Do you know such-and-such a woman?" She replied, 
"Yes." He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by her while she was weeping over a grave, and he said to her, 
'Be afraid of Allah and be patient.' The woman said (to the Prophet). 'Go away from me, for you do 
not know my calamity.'" Anas added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) left her and proceeded. A man passed by her and 
asked her, 'What has Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to you?' She replied, 'I did not recognize him.' The man said, 
'He was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."' Anas added, "So that woman came to the gate of the Prophet (ﷺ) and she did 
not find a gate-keeper there, and she said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah. I did not recognize you!' The 
Prophet said, 'No doubt, patience is at the first stroke of a calamity.'"
Bukhari:7155 Narrated Anas:Qais bin Sa`d was to the Prophet (ﷺ) like a chief police officer to an Amir (chief).
Bukhari:7156 Narrated Abu Musa:that the Prophet (ﷺ) sent him and sent Mu`adh after him (as rulers to Yemen).
Bukhari:7157 Narrated Abu Musa:A man embraced Islam and then reverted back to Judaism. Mu`adh bin Jabal came and saw the man 
with Abu Musa. Mu`adh asked, "What is wrong with this (man)?" Abu Musa replied, "He embraced 
Islam and then reverted back to Judaism." Mu`adh said, "I will not sit down unless you kill him (as it 
is) the verdict of Allah and His Apostle.
Bukhari:7158 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Bakra:Abu Bakra wrote to his son who was in Sijistan: 'Do not judge between two persons when you are 
angry, for I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A judge should not judge between two persons while he is in 
an angry mood."
Bukhari:7159 Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I fail to attend the morning 
congregational prayer because so-and-so (i.e., Mu`adh bin Jabal) prolongs the prayer when he leads us 
for it." I had never seen the Prophet (ﷺ) more furious in giving advice than he was on that day. He then 
said, "O people! some of you make others dislike (good deeds, i.e. prayers etc). So whoever among 
you leads the people in prayer, he should shorten it because among them there are the old, the weak 
and the busy (needy having some jobs to do). (See Hadith No. 90, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7160 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:That he had divorced his wife during her menses. `Umar mentioned that to the Prophet. Allah's 
Apostle became angry and said, "He must take her back (his wife) and keep her with him till she 
becomes clean from her menses and then to wait till she gets her next period and becomes clean again 
from it and only then, if he wants to divorce her, he may do so."
Bukhari:7161 Narrated `Aisha:Hind bint `Utba bin Rabi`a came and said. "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, there was no family on the 
surface of the earth, I like to see in degradation more than I did your family, but today there is no 
family on the surface of the earth whom I like to see honored more than yours." Hind added, "Abu 
Sufyan is a miser. Is it sinful of me to feed our children from his property?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There 
is no blame on you if you feed them (thereof) in a just and reasonable manner.
Bukhari:7162 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to write to the Byzantines, the people said, "They do not read a letter 
unless it is sealed (stamped)." Therefore the Prophet (ﷺ) took a silver ring----as if I am looking at its 
glitter now----and its engraving was: 'Muhammad, Apostle of Allah'.
Bukhari:7163 Narrated 'Abdullah bin As-Sa'di:That when he went to 'Umar during his Caliphate. 'Umar said to him, 
     "Haven't I been told that you do certain jobs for the people but when 
     you are given payment you refuse to take it?" 'Abdullah added: I said,
     "Yes." 'Umar said, "Why do you do so?" I said, "I have horses and 
     slaves and I am living in prosperity and I wish that my payment should
     be kept as a charitable gift for the Muslims." 'Umar said, "Do not do 
     so, for I intended to do the same as you do. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s used to 
     give me gifts and I used to say to him, 'Give it to a more needy one 
     than me.' Once he gave me some money and I said, 'Give it to a more 
     needy person than me,' whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take it and keep 
     it in your possession and then give it in charity. Take what ever 
     comes to you of this money if you are not keen to have it and not 
     asking for it; otherwise (i.e., if it does not come to you) do not 
     seek to have it yourself.' "
Bukhari:7164 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:I have heard 'Umar saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) 
     used to give me some money (grant) and I would say (to him), 'Give it 
     to a more needy one than me.' Once he gave me some money and I said, 
     'Give it to a more needy one than me.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to me), 'Take
     it and keep it in your possession and then give it in charity. Take 
     whatever comes to you of this money while you are not keen to have it 
     and not asking for it; take it, but you should not seek to have what 
     you are not given. ' "
Bukhari:7165 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I witnessed a husband and a wife who were involved in a case of Lian. Then (the judgment of) divorce 
was passed. I was fifteen years of age, at that time.
Bukhari:7166 Narrated Sahl:(the brother of Bani Sa`ida) A man from the Ansar came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "If a man finds 
another man sleeping with his wife, should he kill him?" That man and his wife then did Lian in the 
mosque while I was present.
Bukhari:7167 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque, and called him, saying, "O Allah's 
Apostle! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, 
but when the man gave four witnesses against himself, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Are you mad?" The 
man said, "No." So the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Take him away and stone him to death. "
Bukhari:7168 (continued from above)Narrated Jabir bin Abdullah:I was one of those who stoned him at the Musalla in Al-Madina (SeeHadith 5272).
Bukhari:7169 Narrated Um Salama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I am only a human being, and you people (opponents) come to me with your 
cases; and it may be that one of you can present his case eloquently in a more convincing way than the 
other, and I give my verdict according to what I hear. So if ever I judge (by error) and give the right of 
a brother to his other (brother) then he (the latter) should not take it, for I am giving him only a piece 
of Fire." (See Hadith No. 638, Vol. 3).
Bukhari:7170 Narrated Abu Qatada:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the Day of (the battle of) Hunain, "Whoever has killed an infidel and has a 
proof or a witness for it, then the salb (arms and belongings of that deceased) will be for him." I stood 
up to seek a witness to testify that I had killed an infidel but I could not find any witness and then sat 
down. Then I thought that I should mention the case to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I (and when I did so) a man 
from those who were sitting with him said, "The arms of the killed person he has mentioned, are with 
me, so please satisfy him on my behalf." Abu Bakr said, "No, he will not give the arms to a bird of 
Quraish and deprive one of Allah's lions of it who fights for the cause of Allah and His Apostle." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I stood up and gave it to me, and I bought a garden with its price, and that was my 
first property which I owned through the war booty. 
The people of Hijaz said, "A judge should not pass a judgment according to his knowledge, whether 
he was a witness at the time he was the judge or before that" And if a litigant gives a confession in 
favor of his opponent in the court, in the opinion of some scholars, the judge should not pass a 
judgment against him till the latter calls two witnesses to witness his confession. And some people of 
Iraq said, "A judge can pass a judgement according to what he hears or witnesses (the litigant's 
confession) in the court itself, but if the confession takes place outside the court, he should not pass 
the judgment unless two witnesses witness the confession." Some of them said, "A judge can pass a 
judgement depending on his knowledge of the case as he is trust-worthy, and that a witness is 
Required just to reveal the truth. The judge's knowledge is more than the witness." Some said, "A 
judge can judge according to his knowledge only in cases involving property, but in other cases he 
cannot." Al-Qasim said, "A judge ought not to pass a judgment depending on his knowledge if other 
people do not know what he knows, although his knowledge is more than the witness of somebody 
else because he might expose himself to suspicion by the Muslims and cause the Muslims to have 
unreasonable doubt. "
Bukhari:7171 Narrated `Ali bin Husain:Safiya bint (daughter of) Huyai came to the Prophet (in the mosque), and when she returned (home), 
the Prophet (ﷺ) accompanied her. It happened that two men from the Ansar passed by them and the 
Prophet called them saying, "She is Safiya!" those two men said, "Subhan Allah!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Satan circulates in the human body as blood does."
Bukhari:7172 Narrated Abu Burda:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent my father and Mu`adh bin Jabal to Yemen and said (to them), "Make things easy for 
the people and do not put hurdles in their way, and give them glad tiding, and don't let them have 
aversion (i.e. to make people to hate good deeds) and you both should work in cooperation and mutual 
understanding" Abu Musa said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "In our country a special alcoholic drink called Al- 
Bit', is prepared (for drinking)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every intoxicant is prohibited. "
Bukhari:7173 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Set free the captives and accept invitations."
Bukhari:7174 Narrated Abu Humaid Al-Sa`idi:The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed a man from the tribe of Bani Asad, called Ibn Al-Utabiyya to collect the Zakat. 
When he returned (with the money) he said (to the Prophet), "This is for you and this has been given 
to me as a gift." The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up on the pulpit (Sufyan said he ascended the pulpit), and after 
glorifying and praising Allah, he said, "What is wrong with the employee whom we send (to collect 
Zakat from the public) that he returns to say, 'This is for you and that is for me?' Why didn't he stay at 
his father's and mother's house to see whether he will be given gifts or not? By Him in Whose Hand 
my life is, whoever takes anything illegally will bring it on the Day of Resurrection by carrying it over 
his neck: if it is a camel, it will be grunting: if it is a cow, it will be mooing: and if it is a sheep it will 
be bleating!" The Prophet (ﷺ) then raised both his hands till we saw the whiteness of his armpits (and he 
said), "No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message?" And he repeated it three times.
Bukhari:7175 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Salim, the freed salve of Abu Hudhaifa used to lead in prayer the early Muhajirin (emigrants) and the 
companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Quba mosque. Among those (who used to pray behind him) were 
Abu Bakr, `Umar, Abu Salama, and Amir bin Rabi`a.
Bukhari:7176 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:Marwan bin Al-Hakam and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama told him that when the Muslims were permitted 
to set free the captives of Hawazin, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I do not know who amongst you has agreed 
(to it) and who has not. Go back so that your 'Urafa' may submit your decision to us." So the people 
returned and their 'Urafa' talked to them and then came back to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him that the 
people had given their consent happily and permitted (their captives to be freed).
Bukhari:7177 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:Marwan bin Al-Hakam and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama told him that when the Muslims were permitted 
to set free the captives of Hawazin, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I do not know who amongst you has agreed 
(to it) and who has not. Go back so that your 'Urafa' may submit your decision to us." So the people 
returned and their 'Urafa' talked to them and then came back to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him that the 
people had given their consent happily and permitted (their captives to be freed).
Bukhari:7178 Narrated Muhammad bin Zaid bin `Abdullah bin `Umar:Some people said to Ibn `Umar, "When we enter upon our ruler(s) we say in their praise what is 
contrary to what we say when we leave them." Ibn `Umar said, "We used to consider this as 
hypocrisy."
Bukhari:7179 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s said, "The worst of all mankind is the double-faced one, who comes to some people 
with one face and to others, with another face."
Bukhari:7180 Narrated `Aisha:Hind (bint `Utba) said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Abu Sufyan is a miserly man and I need to take some money of 
his wealth." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take reasonably what is sufficient for you and your children "
Bukhari:7181 Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard some people quarreling at the door of his dwelling, so 
he went out to them and said, "I am only a human being, and litigants with cases of dispute come to 
me, and someone of you may happen to be more eloquent (in presenting his case) than the other, 
whereby I may consider that he is truthful and pass a judgment in his favor. If ever I pass a judgment 
in favor of somebody whereby he takes a Muslim's right unjustly, then whatever he takes is nothing 
but a piece of Fire, and it is up to him to take or leave."
Bukhari:7182 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) `Utba bin Abi Waqqas said to his brother Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas, "The son of 
the slave girl of Zam`a is from me, so take him into your custody." So in the year of Conquest of 
Mecca, Sa`d took him and said. (This is) my brother's son whom my brother has asked me to take into 
my custody." `Abd bin Zam`a got up before him and said, (He is) my brother and the son of the slave 
girl of my father, and was born on my father's bed." So they both submitted their case before Allah's 
Apostle. Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This boy is the son of my brother and he entrusted him to me." 
`Abd bin Zam`a said, "This boy is my brother and the son of the slave girl of my father, and was born 
on the bed of my father." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for you, O `Abd bin Zam`a!" Then Allah's 
Apostle further said, "The child is for the owner of the bed, and the stone is for the adulterer," He then 
said to Sauda bint Zam`a, "Veil (screen) yourself before him," when he saw the child's resemblance to 
`Utba. The boy did not see her again till he met Allah.
Bukhari:7183 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody on the demand of a judge takes an oath to grab (a Muslim's) property 
and he is liar in it, he will meet Allah Who will be angry with him". So Allah revealed,:-- 
'Verily! those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and their oaths..' (3.77) 'Al- 
Ashath came while `Abdullah was narrating (this) to the people. Al-Ashath said, "This verse was 
revealed regarding me and another man with whom I had a quarrel about a well. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to 
me), "Do you have any evidence?' I replied, 'No.' He said, 'Let your opponent take an oath.' I said: I 
am sure he would take a (false) oath." Thereupon it was revealed: 'Verily! those who purchase a small 
gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant....' (3.77) (See Hadith No. 72, Vol 6).
Bukhari:7184 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody on the demand of a judge takes an oath to grab (a Muslim's) property 
and he is liar in it, he will meet Allah Who will be angry with him". So Allah revealed,:-- 
'Verily! those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and their oaths..' (3.77) 'Al- 
Ashath came while `Abdullah was narrating (this) to the people. Al-Ashath said, "This verse was 
revealed regarding me and another man with whom I had a quarrel about a well. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to 
me), "Do you have any evidence?' I replied, 'No.' He said, 'Let your opponent take an oath.' I said: I 
am sure he would take a (false) oath." Thereupon it was revealed: 'Verily! those who purchase a small 
gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant....' (3.77) (See Hadith No. 72, Vol 6).
Bukhari:7185 Narrated Um Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard the voices of some people quarreling near his gate, so he went to them and said, "I 
am only a human being and litigants with cases of disputes come to me, and maybe one of them 
presents his case eloquently in a more convincing and impressive way than the other, and I give my 
verdict in his favor thinking he is truthful. So if I give a Muslim's right to another (by mistake), then 
that (property) is a piece of Fire, which is up to him to take it or leave it." (See Hadith No. 281 )
Bukhari:7186 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to know that one of his companions had given the promise of freeing his slave after 
his death, but as he had no other property than that slave, the Prophet (ﷺ) sold that slave for 800 dirhams 
and sent the price to him.
Bukhari:7187 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent an army unit headed by Usama bin Zaid and the people criticized his leadership. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the people), "If you are criticizing his leadership now, then you used to criticize 
his father's leadership before. By Allah, he (Usama's father) deserved the leadership and used to be 
one of the most beloved persons to me, and now his son (Usama) is one of the most beloved persons 
to me after him. " (See Hadith No. 745, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:7188 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The most hated person in the sight of Allah, is the most quarrelsome person."
Bukhari:7189 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent (an army unit under the command of) Khalid bin Al-Walid to fight against the tribe 
of Bani Jadhima and those people could not express themselves by saying, "Aslamna," but they said, 
"Saba'na! Saba'na! " Khalid kept on killing some of them and taking some others as captives, and he 
gave a captive to everyone of us and ordered everyone of us to kill his captive. I said, "By Allah, I 
shall not kill my captive and none of my companions shall kill his captive!" Then we mentioned that 
to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "O Allah! I am free from what Khalid bin Al-Walid has done," and 
repeated it twice.
Bukhari:7190 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Saidi:There was some quarrel (sighting) among Bani `Amr, and when this news reached the Prophet, he 
offered the Zuhr prayer and went to establish peace among them. In the meantime the time of `Asr 
prayer was due, Bilal pronounced the Adhan and then the Iqama for the prayer and requested Abu 
Bakr (to lead the prayer) and Abu Bakr went forward. The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived while Abu Bakr was still 
praying. He entered the rows of praying people till he stood behind Abu Bakr in the (first) row. The 
people started clapping, and it was the habit of Abu Bakr that whenever he stood for prayer, he never 
glanced side-ways till he had finished it, but when Abu Bakr observed that the clapping was not 
coming to an end, he looked and saw the Prophet (ﷺ) standing behind him. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on by waving his hand. Abu Bakr stood there for a while, thanking 
Allah for the saying of the Prophet (ﷺ) and then he retreated, taking his steps backwards. When the 
Prophet saw that, he went ahead and led the people in prayer. When he finished the prayer, he said, "O 
Abu Bakr! What prevented you from carrying on with the prayer after I beckoned you to do so?" Abu 
Bakr replied, "It does not befit the son of Abi Quhafa to lead the Prophet (ﷺ) in prayer." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said to the people, "If some problem arises during prayers, then the men should say, Subhan Allah!; 
and the women should clap." (See Hadith No. 652, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7191 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:Abu Bakr sent for me owing to the large number of casualties in the battle of Al-Yamama, while 
`Umar was sitting with him. Abu Bakr said (to me), `Umar has come to my and said, 'A great number 
of Qaris of the Holy Qur'an were killed on the day of the battle of Al-Yamama, and I am afraid that 
the casualties among the Qaris of the Qur'an may increase on other battle-fields whereby a large part 
of the Qur'an may be lost. Therefore I consider it advisable that you (Abu Bakr) should have the 
Qur'an collected.' I said, 'How dare I do something which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not do?' `Umar said, By 
Allah, it is something beneficial.' `Umar kept on pressing me for that till Allah opened my chest for 
that for which He had opened the chest of `Umar and I had in that matter, the same opinion as `Umar 
had." Abu Bakr then said to me (Zaid), "You are a wise young man and we do not have any suspicion 
about you, and you used to write the Divine Inspiration for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). So you should search for 
the fragmentary scripts of the Qur'an and collect it (in one Book)." Zaid further said: By Allah, if Abu 
Bakr had ordered me to shift a mountain among the mountains from one place to another it would not 
have been heavier for me than this ordering me to collect the Qur'an. Then I said (to `Umar and Abu 
Bakr), "How can you do something which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not do?" Abu Bakr said, "By Allah, it is 
something beneficial." Zaid added: So he (Abu Bakr) kept on pressing me for that until Allah opened 
my chest for that for which He had opened the chests of Abu Bakr and `Umar, and I had in that 
matter, the same opinion as theirs. 
So I started compiling the Qur'an by collecting it from the leafless stalks of the date-palm tree and 
from the pieces of leather and hides and from the stones, and from the chests of men (who had 
memorized the Qur'an). I found the last verses of Sirat-at-Tauba: ("Verily there has come unto you an 
Apostle (Muhammad) from amongst yourselves--' (9.128-129) ) from Khuza`ima or Abi Khuza`ima 
and I added to it the rest of the Sura. The manuscripts of the Qur'an remained with Abu Bakr till Allah 
took him unto Him. Then it remained with `Umar till Allah took him unto Him, and then with Hafsa 
bint `Umar.
Bukhari:7192 Narrated Abu Laila bin `Abdullah bin `Abdur-Rahman bin Sahl:Sahl bin Abi Hathma and some great men of his tribe said, `Abdullah bin 'Sahl and Muhaiyisa went 
out to Khaibar as they were struck with poverty and difficult living conditions. Then Muhaiyisa was 
informed that `Abdullah had been killed and thrown in a pit or a spring. Muhaiyisa went to the Jews 
and said, "By Allah, you have killed my companion." The Jews said, "By Allah, we have not killed 
him." Muhaiyisa then came back to his people and told them the story. He, his elder brother 
Huwaiyisa and `Abdur-Rahman bin Sahl came (to the Prophet) and he who had been at Khaibar, 
proceeded to speak, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Muhaiyisa, "The eldest! The eldest!" meaning, "Let the 
eldest of you speak." So Huwaiyisa spoke first and then Muhaiyisa. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Jews 
should either pay the blood money of your (deceased) companion or be ready for war." After that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wrote a letter to the Jews in that respect, and they wrote that they had not killed him. 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Huwaiyisa, Muhaiyisa and `Abdur-Rahman, "Can you take an oath by 
which you will be entitled to take the blood money?" They said, "No." He said (to them), "Shall we 
ask the Jews to take an oath before you?" They replied, "But the Jews are not Muslims." So Allah's 
Apostle gave them one-hundred she-camels as blood money from himself. Sahl added: When those 
she-camels were made to enter the house, one of them kicked me with its leg.
Bukhari:7193 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:A bedouin came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Judge between us according to Allah's Book (Laws)." 
His opponent stood up and said, "He has said the truth, so judge between us according to Allah's 
Laws." The bedouin said, "My son was a laborer for this man and committed illegal sexual intercourse 
with his wife. The people said to me, 'Your son is to be stoned to death,' so I ransomed my son for one 
hundred sheep and a slave girl. Then I asked the religious learned men and they said to me, 'Your son 
has to receive one hundred lashes plus one year of exile.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I shall judge between 
you according to Allah's Book (Laws)! As for the slave girl and the sheep, it shall be returned to you, 
and your son shall receive one-hundred lashes and be exiled for one year. O you, Unais!" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
addressed some man, "Go in the morning to the wife of this man and stone her to death." So Unais 
went to her the next morning and stoned her to death.
Bukhari:7194 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:A bedouin came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Judge between us according to Allah's Book (Laws)." 
His opponent stood up and said, "He has said the truth, so judge between us according to Allah's 
Laws." The bedouin said, "My son was a laborer for this man and committed illegal sexual intercourse 
with his wife. The people said to me, 'Your son is to be stoned to death,' so I ransomed my son for one 
hundred sheep and a slave girl. Then I asked the religious learned men and they said to me, 'Your son 
has to receive one hundred lashes plus one year of exile.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I shall judge between 
you according to Allah's Book (Laws)! As for the slave girl and the sheep, it shall be returned to you, 
and your son shall receive one-hundred lashes and be exiled for one year. O you, Unais!" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
addressed some man, "Go in the morning to the wife of this man and stone her to death." So Unais 
went to her the next morning and stoned her to death.
Bukhari:7195 Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit said that Zaid bin Thabit said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to learn the writing of the Jews. I even wrote letters for the Prophet (ﷺ) (to the Jews) and also read their letters when they wrote to him."And 'Umar said in the presence of 'Ali, 'Abdur-Rahman, and 'Uthman, "What is this woman saying?" (the woman was non-Arab) 'Abdur-Rahman bin Hatib said:"She is informing you about her companion who has committed illegal sexual intercourse with her."Abu Jamra said, "I was an interpreter between Ibn 'Abbas and the people." Some people said, "A ruler should have two interpreters."
Bukhari:7196 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:That Abu Sufyan bin Harb told him that Heraclius had called him along with the members of a 
Quraish caravan and then said to his interpreter, "Tell them that I want to ask this (Abu Sufyan) a 
question, and if he tries to tell me a lie, they should contradict him." Then Abu Sufyan mentioned the 
whole narration and said that Heraclius said to the inter Peter, "Say to him (Abu Sufyan), 'If what you 
say is true, then he (the Prophet) will take over the place underneath my two feet.' "
Bukhari:7197 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi:The Prophet (ﷺ) employed Ibn Al-Utbiyya to collect Zakat from Bani Sulaim, and when he returned (with 
the money) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the Prophet (ﷺ) called him to account, and he said, "This (amount) is for 
you, and this was given to me as a present." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Why don't you stay at your father's 
house or your mother's house to see whether you will be given gifts or not, if you are telling the 
truth?" Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and addressed the people, and after glorifying and praising 
Allah, he said: Amma Ba'du (then after) I employ some men from among you for some job which 
Allah has placed in my charge, and then one of you comes to me and says, 'This (amount) is for you 
and this is a gift given to me.' Why doesn't he stay at the house of his father or the house of his mother 
and see whether he will be given gifts or not if he was telling the truth by Allah, none of you takes 
anything of it (i.e., Zakat) for himself (Hisham added: unlawfully) but he will meet Allah on the Day 
of Resurrection carrying it on his neck! I do not want to see any of you carrying a grunting camel or a 
mooing cow or a bleating sheep on meeting Allah." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) raised both his hands till I saw 
the whiteness of his armpits, and said, "(No doubt)! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message!"
Bukhari:7198 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah never sends a prophet or gives the Caliphate to a Caliph but that he (the 
prophet or the Caliph) has two groups of advisors: A group advising him to do good and exhorts him 
to do it, and the other group advising him to do evil and exhorts him to do it. But the protected person 
(against such evil advisors) is the one protected by Allah.' "
Bukhari:7199 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:We gave the oath of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that we would listen to and obey him both at the 
time when we were active and at the time when we were tired and that we would not fight against the 
ruler or disobey him, and would stand firm for the truth or say the truth wherever we might be, and in 
the Way of Allah we would not be afraid of the blame of the blamers. (See Hadith No. 178 and 320)
Bukhari:7200 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:We gave the oath of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that we would listen to and obey him both at the 
time when we were active and at the time when we were tired and that we would not fight against the 
ruler or disobey him, and would stand firm for the truth or say the truth wherever we might be, and in 
the Way of Allah we would not be afraid of the blame of the blamers. (See Hadith No. 178 and 320)
Bukhari:7201 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on a cold morning while the Muhajirin (emigrants) and the Ansar were digging 
the trench. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "O Allah! The real goodness is the goodness of the Here after, so 
please forgive the Ansar and the Muhajirin." They replied, "We are those who have given the Pledge 
of allegiance to Muhammad for to observe Jihad as long as we remain alive."
Bukhari:7202 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Whenever we gave the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for to listen to and obey, he used to say 
to us, for as much as you can."
Bukhari:7203 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:I witnessed Ibn `Umar when the people gathered around `Abdul Malik. Ibn `Umar wrote: I gave the 
Pledge of allegiance that I will listen to and obey Allah's Slave, `Abdul Malik, Chief of the believers 
according to Allah's Laws and the Traditions of His Apostle as much as I can; and my sons too, give 
the same pledge.'
Bukhari:7204 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I gave the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) that I would listen and obey, and he told me to add: 'As 
much as I can, and will give good advice to every Muslim.'
Bukhari:7205 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:When the people took the oath of allegiance to `Abdul Malik, `Abdullah bin `Umar wrote to him: "To 
Allah's Slave, `Abdul Malik, Chief of the believers, I give the Pledge of allegiance that I will listen to 
and obey Allah's Slave, `Abdul Malik, Chief of the believers, according to Allah's Laws and the 
Traditions of His Apostle in whatever is within my ability; and my sons too, give the same pledge."
Bukhari:7206 Narrated Yazid:I said to Salama, "For what did you give the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the Day of 
Hudaibiya?" He replied, "For death."
Bukhari:7207 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:The group of people whom `Umar had selected as candidates for the Caliphate gathered and consulted 
each other. `Abdur-Rahman said to them, "I am not going to compete with you in this matter, but if 
you wish, I would select for you a caliph from among you." 
So all of them agreed to let `Abdur-Rahman decide the case. So when the candidates placed the case 
in the hands of `Abdur-Rahman, the people went towards him and nobody followed the rest of the 
group nor obeyed any after him. So the people followed `Abdur-Rahman and consulted him all those 
nights till there came the night we gave the oath of allegiance to `Uthman. Al-Miswar (bin Makhrama) 
added: `Abdur-Rahman called on me after a portion of the night had passed and knocked on my door 
till I got up, and he said to me, "I see you have been sleeping! By Allah, during the last three nights I 
have not slept enough. Go and call Az-Zubair and Sa`d.' 
So I called them for him and he consulted them and then called me saying, 'Call `Ali for me." I called 
`Ali and he held a private talk with him till very late at night, and then 'Al, got up to leave having had 
much hope (to be chosen as a Caliph) but `Abdur-Rahman was afraid of something concerning `Ali. 
`Abdur-Rahman then said to me, "Call `Uthman for me." I called him and he kept on speaking to him 
privately till the Mu'adh-dhin put an end to their talk by announcing the Adhan for the Fajr prayer. 
When the people finished their morning prayer and that (six men) group gathered near the pulpit, 
`Abdur-Rahman sent for all the Muhajirin (emigrants) and the Ansar present there and sent for the 
army chief who had performed the Hajj with `Umar that year. When all of them had gathered, `Abdur- 
Rahman said, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah," and added, "Now then, O `Ali, I have 
looked at the people's tendencies and noticed that they do not consider anybody equal to `Uthman, so 
you should not incur blame (by disagreeing)." Then `Abdur-Rahman said (to `Uthman), "I gave the 
oath of allegiance to you on condition that you will follow Allah's Laws and the traditions of Allah's 
Apostle and the traditions of the two Caliphs after him." So `Abdur-Rahman gave the oath of 
allegiance to him, and so did the people including the Muhajirin (emigrants) and the Ansar and the 
chiefs of the army staff and all the Muslims.
Bukhari:7208 Narrated Salama:We gave the oath of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) under the tree. He said to me, "O Salama! Will you not 
give the oath of allegiance?" I replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have already given the oath of allegiance 
for the first time." He said, (Give it again) for the second time.
Bukhari:7209 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A bedouin gave the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for Islam and the bedouin got a fever 
where upon he said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Cancel my Pledge." But the Prophet (ﷺ) refused. He came to him 
(again) saying, "Cancel my Pledge.' But the Prophet (ﷺ) refused. Then (the bedouin) left (Medina). Allah's 
Apostle said: "Medina is like a pair of bellows (furnace): It expels its impurities and brightens and 
clears its good."
Bukhari:7210 Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham:who was born during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) that his mother, Zainab bint Humaid had taken him to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Take his Pledge of allegiance (for Islam)." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "He (`Abdullah bin Hisham) is a little child," and passed his hand over his head and invoked 
Allah for him. `Abdullah bin Hisham used to slaughter one sheep as a sacrifice on behalf of all of his 
family.
Bukhari:7211 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A bedouin gave the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for Islam. Then the bedouin got fever at 
Medina, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Cancel my Pledge," But Allah's 
Apostle refused. Then he came to him (again) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Cancel my Pledge." But 
the Prophet (ﷺ) refused Then he came to him (again) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Cancel my Pledge." 
But the Prophet (ﷺ) refused. The bedouin finally went out (of Medina) whereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 
"Medina is like a pair of bellows (furnace): It expels its impurities and brightens and clears its good.
Bukhari:7212 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be three types of people whom Allah will neither speak to them on 
the Day of Resurrection nor will purify them from sins, and they will have a painful punishment: They 
are, (1) a man possessed superfluous water (more than he needs) on a way and he withholds it from 
the travelers. (2) a man who gives a pledge of allegiance to an Imam (ruler) and gives it only for 
worldly benefits, if the Imam gives him what he wants, he abides by his pledge, otherwise he does not 
fulfill his pledge; (3) and a man who sells something to another man after the `Asr prayer and swears 
by Allah (a false oath) that he has been offered so much for it whereupon the buyer believes him and 
buys it although in fact, the seller has not been offered such a price." (See Hadith No. 838, Vol. 3)
Bukhari:7213 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us while we were in a gathering, "Give me the oath (Pledge of allegiance for: 
(1) Not to join anything in worship along with Allah, (2) Not to steal, (3) Not to commit illegal sexual 
intercourse, (4) Not to kill your children, (5) Not to accuse an innocent person (to spread such an 
accusation among people), (6) Not to be disobedient (when ordered) to do good deeds. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added: Whoever amongst you fulfill his pledge, his reward will be with Allah, and whoever commits 
any of those sins and receives the legal punishment in this world for that sin, then that punishment will 
be an expiation for that sin, and whoever commits any of those sins and Allah does not expose him, 
then it is up to Allah if He wishes He will punish him or if He wishes, He will forgive him." So we 
gave the Pledge for that. (See Hadith No. 17, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7214 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take the Pledge of allegiance from the women by words only after reciting this 
Holy Verse:--(60.12) "..that they will not associate anything in worship with Allah." (60.12) And the 
hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not touch any woman's hand except the hand of that woman his right hand 
possessed. (i.e. his captives or his lady slaves).
Bukhari:7215 Narrated Um Atiyya:We gave the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he recited to me the verse (60.12). That they will 
not associate anything in worship with Allah (60.12). And he also prevented us from wailing and 
lamenting over the dead. A woman from us held her hand out and said, "Such-and-such a woman 
cried over a dead person belonging to my family and I want to compensate her for that crying" The 
Prophet did not say anything in reply and she left and returned. None of those women abided by her 
pledge except Um Sulaim, Um Al-`Ala', and the daughter of Abi Sabra, the wife of Al-Mu`adh or the 
daughter of Abi Sabra, and the wife of Mu`adh.
Bukhari:7216 Narrated Jabir:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Please take my Pledge of allegiance for Islam." So the 
Prophet took from him the Pledge of allegiance for Islam. He came the next day with a fever and said 
to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Cancel my pledge." But the Prophet (ﷺ) refused and when the bedouin went away, the 
Prophet said, "Medina is like a pair of bellows (furnace): It expels its impurities and brightens and 
clears its good."
Bukhari:7217 Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:`Aisha said, "O my head!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If that (i.e., your death) should happen while I am 
still alive, I would ask Allah to forgive you and would invoke Allah for you." `Aisha said, "O my life 
which is going to be lost! By Allah, I think that you wish for my death, and if that should happen then 
you would be busy enjoying the company of one of your wives in the last part of that day." The 
Prophet said, "But I should say, 'O my head!' I feel like calling Abu Bakr and his son and appoint (the 
former as my successors lest people should say something or wish for something. Allah will insist (on 
Abu Bakr becoming a Caliph) and the believers will prevent (anyone else from claiming the 
Caliphate)," or "..Allah will prevent (anyone else from claiming the Caliphate) and the believers will 
insist (on Abu Bakr becoming the Caliph).
Bukhari:7218 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:It was said to `Umar, "Will you appoint your successor?" `Umar said, "If I appoint a Caliph (as my 
successor) it is true that somebody who was better than I (i.e., Abu Bakr) did so, and if I leave the 
matter undecided, it is true that somebody who was better than I (i.e., Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) did so." On 
this, the people praised him. `Umar said, "People are of two kinds: Either one who is keen to take over 
the Caliphate or one who is afraid of assuming such a responsibility. I wish I could be free from its 
responsibility in that I would receive neither reward nor retribution I won't bear the burden of the 
caliphate in my death as I do in my life."
Bukhari:7219 Narrated Anas bin Malik:That he heard `Umar's second speech he delivered when he sat on the pulpit on the day following the 
death of the Prophet (ﷺ) `Umar recited the Tashahhud while Abu Bakr was silent. `Umar said, "I wish that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had outlived all of us, i.e., had been the last (to die). But if Muhammad is dead, Allah 
nevertheless has kept the light amongst you from which you can receive the same guidance as Allah 
guided Muhammad with that. And Abu Bakr is the companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) He is the second of 
the two in the cave. He is the most entitled person among the Muslims to manage your affairs. 
Therefore get up and swear allegiance to him." Some people had already taken the oath of allegiance 
to him in the shed of Bani Sa`ida but the oath of allegiance taken by the public was taken at the pulpit. 
I heard `Umar saying to Abu Bakr on that day. "Please ascend the pulpit," and kept on urging him till 
he ascended the pulpit whereupon, all the people swore allegiance to him.
Bukhari:7220 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and spoke to him about something and he told her to return to him. She 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I come and do not find you?" (As if she meant, "...if you die?") The 
Prophet said, "If you should not find me, then go to Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:7221 Narrated Tariq bin Shihab:Abu Bakr said to the delegate of Buzakha. "Follow the tails of the camels till Allah shows the Caliph 
(successor) of His Prophet and Al-Muhajirin (emigrants) something because of which you may excuse 
yourselves."
Bukhari:7222 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will be twelve Muslim rulers (who will rule all the Islamic world)." 
He then said a sentence which I did not hear. My father said, "All of them (those rulers) will be from 
Quraish."
Bukhari:7223 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will be twelve Muslim rulers (who will rule all the Islamic world)." 
He then said a sentence which I did not hear. My father said, "All of them (those rulers) will be from 
Quraish."
Bukhari:7224 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, I was about to order for collecting fire 
wood and then order someone to pronounce the Adhan for the prayer and then order someone to lead 
the people in prayer and then I would go from behind and burn the houses of men who did not present 
themselves for the (compulsory congregational) prayer. By Him in Whose Hands my life is, if anyone 
of you had known that he would receive a bone covered with meat or two (small) pieces of meat 
present in between two ribs, he would come for `Isha' prayer." (See Hadith No. 617, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7225 Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b bin Malik:Who was Ka`b's guide from among his sons when Ka`b became blind: I heard Ka`b bin Malik saying, 
"When some people remained behind and did not join Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle of Tabuk.." and 
then he described the whole narration and said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the Muslims to speak to us, 
and so we (I and my companions) stayed fifty nights in that state, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) announced 
Allah's acceptance of our repentance."
Bukhari:7226 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is! Were it not for some men who 
dislike to be left behind and for whom I do not have means of conveyance, I would not stay away 
(from any Holy Battle). I would love to be martyred in Allah's Cause and come to life and then get, 
martyred and then come to life and then get martyred and then get resurrected and then get martyred.
Bukhari:7227 Narrated Al-A'raj:Abu Huraira said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, I would love to fight in 
Allah's Cause and then get martyred and then resurrected (come to life) and then get martyred and 
then resurrected (come to life) and then get martyred, and then resurrected (come to life) and then get 
martyred and then resurrected (come to life)." Abu Huraira used to repeat those words three times and 
I testify to it with Allah's Oath.
Bukhari:7228 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I had gold equal to the mountain of Uhud, I would love that, before three days 
had passed, not a single Dinar thereof remained with me if I found somebody to accept it excluding 
some amount that I would keep for the payment of my debts.''
Bukhari:7229 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had formerly known what I came to know recently, I would not have driven the 
Hadi with me and would have finished the state of Ihram along with the people when they finished it."
Bukhari:7230 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we assumed the state of Ihram of Hajj and arrived at 
Mecca on the fourth of Dhul-Hijja. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba 
and (Sa`i) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa and use our lhram just for `Umra, and finish the state of 
Ihram unless we had our Hadi with us. None of us had the Hadi with him except the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
Talha. `Ali came from Yemen and brought the Hadi with him. `Ali said, 'I had assumed the state of 
Ihram with the same intention as that with which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had assumed it. The people said, 
"How can we proceed to Mina and our male organs are dribbling?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had 
formerly known what I came to know latterly, I would not have brought the Hadi, and had there been 
no Hadi with me, I would have finished my Ihram." Suraqa (bin Malik) met the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was 
throwing pebbles at the Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba, and asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Is this (permitted) for us 
only?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied. "No, it is forever" `Aisha had arrived at Mecca while she was 
menstruating, therefore the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered her to perform all the ceremonies of Hajj except the 
Tawaf around the Ka`ba, and not to perform her prayers unless and until she became clean . When 
they encamped at Al-Batha, `Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You are proceeding after performing 
both Hajj and `Umra while I am proceeding with Hajj only?" So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Abdur-Rahman 
bin Abu Bakr As-Siddiq to go with her to at-Tan`im, and so she performed the `Umra in Dhul-Hijja 
after the days of the Hajj.
Bukhari:7231 Narrated Aisha:One night the Prophet (ﷺ) was unable to sleep and said, "Would that a righteous man from my 
companions guarded me tonight." Suddenly we heard the clatter of arms, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Who is it?" It was said, "I am Sa`d, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have come to guard you." The Prophet (ﷺ) then 
slept so soundly that we heard him snoring. Abu `Abdullah said: `Aisha said: Bilal said, "Would that I 
but stayed overnight in a valley with Idhkhir and Jalil (two kinds of grass) around me (i.e., in 
Mecca)." Then I told that to the Prophet (ﷺ) .
Bukhari:7232 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like except of two men. A man whom Allah has given the 
(knowledge of the) Qur'an and he recites it during the hours of night and day and the one who wishes 
says: If I were given the same as this (man) has been given, I would do what he does, and a man 
whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it in the just and right way, in which case the one who 
wishes says, 'If I were given the same as he has been given, I would do what he does.' " (See Hadith5025and5026)
Bukhari:7233 Narrated Anas:If I had not heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "You should not long for death," I would have longed (for it).
Bukhari:7234 Narrated Qais:We went to pay a visit to Khabbab bin Al-Art and he had got himself branded at seven spots over his 
body. He said, "If Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not forbidden us to invoke Allah for death, I would have 
invoked for it."
Bukhari:7235 Narrated Sa`d bin Ubaid:(the Maula of `Abdur-Rahman bin Azhar) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should long for death, 
for if he is a good man, he may increase his good deeds, and if he is an evil-doer, he may stop the evil 
deeds and repent."
Bukhari:7236 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:The Prophet (ﷺ) was carrying earth with us on the day of the battle of Al-Ahzab (confederates) and I saw 
that the dust was covering the whiteness of his `Abdomen, and he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) was saying, "(O 
Allah) ! Without You, we would not have been guided, nor would we have given in charity, nor would 
we have prayed. So (O Allah!) please send tranquility (Sakina) upon us as they, (the chiefs of the 
enemy tribes) have rebelled against us. And if they intend affliction (i.e. want to frighten us and fight 
against us) then we would not (flee but withstand them). And the Prophet (ﷺ) used to raise his voice with 
it. (See Hadith No. 430 and 432, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:7237 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not long for meeting your enemy, and ask Allah for safety (from all sorts of 
evil)." (See Hadith No. 266, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:7238 Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:Ibn `Abbas mentioned the case of a couple on whom the judgment of Lian has been passed. `Abdullah 
bin Shaddad said, "Was that the lady in whose case the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I were to stone a lady to death 
without a proof (against her)?' "Ibn `Abbas said, "No! That was concerned with a woman who though 
being a Muslim used to arouse suspicion by her outright misbehavior." (See Hadith No. 230, Vol.7)
Bukhari:7239 Narrated 'Ata:One night the Prophet (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer whereupon `Umar went to him and said, "The prayer, 
O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The women and children had slept." The Prophet (ﷺ) came out with water dropping 
from his head, and said, "Were I not afraid that it would be hard for my followers (or for the people), I 
would order them to pray `Isha prayer at this time." (Various versions of this Hadith are given by the 
narrators with slight differences in expression but not in content).
Bukhari:7240 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Were I not afraid that it would be hard on my followers, I would order them to 
use the siwak (as obligatory, for cleaning the teeth).
Bukhari:7241 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) fasted Al-Wisal on the last days of the month. Some people did the same, and when the 
news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he said, "If the month had been prolonged for me, then I would have fasted 
Wisal for such a long time that the most exaggerating ones among you would have given up their 
exaggeration. I am not like you; my Lord always makes me eat and drink."
Bukhari:7242 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal. The people said (to him), "But you fast Al-`Wisal," He said, "Who 
among you is like me? When I sleep (at night), my Lord makes me eat and drink. But when the people 
refused to give up Al-Wisal, he fasted Al-Wisal along with them for two days and then they saw the 
crescent whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the crescent had not appeared I would have fasted for a 
longer period," as if he intended to punish them herewith.
Bukhari:7243 Narrated `Aisha:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the wall (outside the Ka`ba). "Is it regarded as part of the Ka`ba?" He 
replied, "Yes." I said, "Then why didn't the people include it in the Ka`ba?" He said, "(Because) your 
people ran short of money." I asked, "Then why is its gate so high?" He replied, ''Your people did so 
in order to admit to it whom they would and forbid whom they would. Were your people not still close 
to the period of ignorance, and were I not afraid that their hearts might deny my action, then surely I 
would include the wall in the Ka`ba and make its gate touch the ground."
Bukhari:7244 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "But for the emigration, I would have been one of the Ansar: and if the people 
took their way in a valley (or a mountain pass), I would take the Ansar's valley or the mountain pass."
Bukhari:7245 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But for the emigration, I would have been one of the Ansar; and if the people took 
their way in a valley (or a mountain pass), I would take Ansar's valley or their mountain pass."
Bukhari:7246 Narrated Malik:We came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and we were young men nearly of equal ages and we stayed with him for 
twenty nights. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was a very kind man and when he realized our longing for our families, 
he asked us about those whom we had left behind. When we informed him, he said, "Go back to your 
families and stay with them and teach them (religion) and order them (to do good deeds). The Prophet (ﷺ) 
mentioned things some of which I remembered and some I did not. Then he said, "Pray as you have 
seen me praying, and when it is the time of prayer, one of you should pronounce the call (Adhan) for 
the prayer and the eldest of you should lead the prayer. "
Bukhari:7247 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (call for prayer) Adhan of Bilal should not stop anyone of you from taking 
his Suhur for he pronounces the Adhan in order that whoever among you is praying the night prayer, 
may return (to eat his Suhur) and whoever among you is sleeping, may get up, for it is not yet dawn 
(when it is like this)." (Yahya, the sub-narrator stretched his two index fingers side ways).
Bukhari:7248 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night so that you may eat and drink till Ibn Um 
Maktum pronounces the Adhan (for the Fajr prayer).
Bukhari:7249 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in Zuhr prayer and prayer five rak`at. Somebody asked him whether the prayer had 
been increased." He (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) said, "And what is that?" They (the people) replied, "You have 
prayed five rak`at." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) offered two prostrations (of Sahu) after he had finished his 
prayer with the Taslim.
Bukhari:7250 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his prayer after offerings two rak`at only. Dhul-Yaddain asked him whether 
the prayer had been reduced, or you had forgotten?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is Dhul-Yaddain speaking the 
truth?" The people said, "Yes." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and performed another two rak`at and 
then finished prayer with Taslim, and then said the Takbir and performed a prostration similar to or 
longer than his ordinary prostrations; then he raised his head, said Takbir and prostrated and then 
raised his head (Sahu prostrations).
Bukhari:7251 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:While the people were at Quba offering the morning prayer, suddenly a person came to them saying, 
"Tonight Divine Inspiration has been revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he has been ordered to face the 
Ka`ba (in prayers): therefore you people should face it." There faces were towards Sham, so they 
turned their faces towards the Ka`ba (at Mecca).
Bukhari:7252 Narrated Al-Bara':When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, he prayed facing Jerusalem for sixteen or seventeen months 
but he wished that he would be ordered to face the Ka`ba. So Allah revealed: -- 
'Verily! We have seen the turning of your face towards the heaven; surely we shall turn you to a 
prayer direction (Qibla) that shall please you.' (2.144) Thus he was directed towards the Ka`ba. A man 
prayed the `Asr prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then went out, and passing by some people from the 
Ansar, he said, "I testify. that I have prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he (the Prophet) has prayed facing 
the Ka`ba." Thereupon they, who were bowing in the `Asr prayer, turned towards the Ka`ba.
Bukhari:7253 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I used to offer drinks prepared from infused dates to Abu Talha Al-Ansari, Abu 'Ubada bin Al Jarrah 
and Ubai bin Ka`b. Then a person came to them and said, "All alcoholic drinks have been prohibited." 
Abii Talha then said, "O Anas! Get up and break all these jars." So I got up and took a mortar 
belonging to us, and hit the jars with its lower part till they broke.
Bukhari:7254 Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the people of Najran, "I will send to you an honest person who is really 
trustworthy." The Companion, of the Prophet (ﷺ) each desired to be that person, but the Prophet (ﷺ) sent Abu 
'Ubaida.
Bukhari:7255 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every nation there is an Amin (honest, trustworthy person) and the Amin of 
this nation is Abu 'Ubaida."
Bukhari:7256 Narrated `Umar:There was a man from the Ansar (who was a friend of mine). If he was not present in the company of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I used to be present with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I would tell him what I used to hear from 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and when I was absent from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he used to be present with him, and he 
would tell me what he used to hear from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) .
Bukhari:7257 Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) , sent an army and appointed some man their commander The man made a fire and then 
said (to the soldiers), "Enter it." Some of them intended to enter it while some others said, 'We have 
run away from it (i.e., embraced Islam to save ourselves from the 'fire')." They mentioned that to the 
Prophet, and he said about people who had intended to enter the fire. ''If they had entered it, they 
would have remained In it till the Day of Resurrection.'' Then he said to others, "No obedience for evil 
deeds, obedience is required only in what is good ."
Bukhari:7258 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men sued each other before the Prophet.
Bukhari:7259 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men sued each other before the Prophet.
Bukhari:7260 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a bedouin got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Settle my case 
according to Allah's Book (Laws)." Then his opponent got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He has 
said the truth! Settle his case according to Allah's Book (Laws.) and allow me to speak," He said, "My 
son was a laborer for this man and he committed illegal sexual intercourse with his wife. The people 
told me that my son should be stoned to death but I ransomed him with one-hundred sheep and a slave 
girl. Then I asked the religious learned people and they told me that his wife should be stoned to death 
and my son should receive one-hundred lashes and be sentenced to one year of exile.' The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, I will judge between you according to Allah's Book (Laws): 
As for the slave girl and the sheep, they are to be returned; and as for your son, he shall receive onehundred 
lashes and will be exiled for one year. You, O Unais!" addressing a man from Bani Aslam, 
"Go tomorrow morning to the wife of this (man) and if she confesses, then stone her to death." The 
next morning Unais went to the wife and she confessed, and he stoned her to death.
Bukhari:7261 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the day of (the battle of) the Trench, the Prophet (ﷺ) called the people (to bring news about the 
enemy). Az-Zubair responded to his call. He called them again and Az-Zubair responded to his call 
again; then he called them for the third time and again Az-Zubair responded to his call whereupon the 
Prophet said, "Every prophet has his Hawairi (helper), and Az-Zubair is my Hawari."
Bukhari:7262 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered a garden and told me to guard its gate. Then a man came and asked permission to 
enter. The Prophet, said, "Permit him and give him the good news that he will enter Paradise." 
Behold! It was Abu Bakr. Then `Umar came, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him and give him the good 
news that he will enter Paradise." Then `Uthman came and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him and give him 
the good news that he will enter Paradise. "
Bukhari:7263 Narrated `Umar:I came and behold, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was staying on a Mashroba (attic room) and a black slave of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was at the top if its stairs. I said to him, "(Tell the Prophet) that here is `Umar bin Al- 
Khattab (asking for permission to enter)." Then he admitted me.
Bukhari:7264 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a letter to Khosrau and told his messenger to give it first to the ruler of Bahrain, 
and tell him to deliver it to Khosrau. When Khosrau had read it, he tore it into pieces. (Az-Zuhri said: 
I think Ibn Al-Musaiyab said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked Allah to tear them (Khosrau and his followers) 
into pieces."
Bukhari:7265 Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to a man from the tribe of Al-Aslam, "Proclaim among your people (or the 
people) on the day of 'Ashura' (tenth of Muharram), 'Whosoever has eaten anything should fast for the 
rest of the day; and whoever has not eaten anything, should complete his fast.' "
Bukhari:7266 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the delegate of `Abd Al-Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said, "Who are the delegate?" They 
said, "The delegate are from the tribe of Rabi`a." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Welcome, O the delegate, and 
welcome! O people! Neither you will have any disgrace nor will you regret." They said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Between you and us there are the infidels of the tribe of Mudar, so please order us to do 
something good (religious deeds) that by acting on them we may enter Paradise, and that we may 
inform (our people) whom we have left behind, about it." They also asked (the Prophet) about drinks. 
He forbade them from four things and ordered them to do four things. He ordered them to believe in 
Allah, and asked them, "Do you know what is meant by belief in Allah?" They said, "Allah and His 
Apostle know best." He said, ''To testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, the 
One, Who has no partners with Him, and that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); and to offer prayers 
perfectly and to pay Zakat." (the narrator thinks that fasting in Ramadan is included), "and to give 
one-fifth of the war booty (to the state)." Then he forbade four (drinking utensils): Ad-Duba', Al56 
Hantam, Al-Mazaffat and An-Naqir, or probably, Al-Muqaiyar. And then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Remember all these things by heart and preach it to those whom you have left behind."
Bukhari:7267 Narrated Tauba Al-`Anbari:Ash-'Shu`bi asked me, "Did you notice how Al-Hasan used to narrate Hadiths from the Prophets? I 
stayed with Ibn `Umar for about two or one-and-half years and I did not hear him narrating any thing 
from the Prophet (ﷺ) except his (Hadith): He (Ibn `Umar) said, "Some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
including Sa`d, were going to eat meat, but one of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) called them, saying, 'It is 
the meat of a Mastigure.' The people then stopped eating it. On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Carry on 
eating, for it is lawful.' Or said, 'There is no harm in eating it, but it is not from my meals."
Bukhari:7268 Narrated Tariq bin Shihab:A Jew said to `Umar, "O Chief of the Believers, if this verse: 'This day I have perfected your religion 
for you, completed My favors upon you, and have chosen for you, Islam as your religion.' (5.3) had 
been revealed upon us, we would have taken that day as an `Id (festival) day." `Umar said, "I know 
definitely on what day this Verse was revealed; it was revealed on the day of `Arafat, on a Friday."
Bukhari:7269 Narrated Anas bin Malik:That he heard `Umar speaking while standing on the pulpit of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the morning (following 
the death of the Prophet), when the people had sworn allegiance to Abu Bakr. He said the Tashah-hud 
before Abu Bakr, and said, "Amma Ba'du (then after) Allah has chosen for his Apostle what is with 
Him (Paradise) rather than what is with you (the world). This is that Book (Qur'an) with which Allah 
guided your Apostle, so stick to it, for then you will be guided on the right path as Allah guided His 
Apostle with it."
Bukhari:7270 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) embraced me and said, "O Allah! Teach him (the knowledge of) the Book (Qur'an)."
Bukhari:7271 Narrated Abal Minhal:Abu Barza said, "(O people!) Allah makes you self-sufficient or has raised you high with Islam and 
with Muhammad."
Bukhari:7272 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:`Abdullah Bin `Umar wrote to `Abdul Malik bin Marwan, swearing allegiance to him: 'I swear 
allegiance to you in that I will listen and obey what is in accordance with the Laws of Allah and the 
Tradition of His Apostle as much as I can.'
Bukhari:7273 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:Abu Huraira said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent with 'Jawami-al-Kalim ' (the shortest 
expression with the widest meaning) and have been made victorious with awe (cast in my enemy's 
hearts), and while I was sleeping, I saw that the keys of the treasures of the world were placed in my 
hand." Abu Huraira added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has gone, and you people are utilizing those treasures, or 
digging those treasures out." or said a similar sentence.
Bukhari:7274 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There was no prophet among the prophets but was given miracles because of 
which people had security or had belief, but what I was given was the Divine Inspiration which Allah 
revealed to me. So I hope that my followers will be more than those of any other prophet on the Day 
of Resurrection."
Bukhari:7275 Narrated Abu Wail:I sat with Shaiba in this Mosque (Al-Masjid-Al-Haram), and he said, "`Umar once sat beside me here 
as you are now sitting, and said, 'I feel like distributing all the gold and silver that are in it (i.e., the 
Ka`ba) among the Muslims'. I said, 'You cannot do that.' `Umar said, 'Why?' I said, 'Your two 
(previous) companions (the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr) did not do it. `Umar said, 'They are the two 
persons whom one must follow.'" (See Hadith No. 664, Vol. 2)
Bukhari:7276 Narrated Hudhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "Honesty descended from the Heavens and settled in the roots of the hearts 
of men (faithful believers), and then the Qur'an was revealed and the people read the Qur'an, (and 
learnt it from it) and also learnt it from the Sunna." Both Qur'an and Sunna strengthened their (the 
faithful believers') honesty. (See Hadith No. 208)
Bukhari:7277 Narrated `Abdullah:The best talk (speech) is Allah's Book 'Qur'an), and the best way is the way of Muhammad, and the 
worst matters are the heresies (those new things which are introduced into the religion); and whatever 
you have been promised will surely come to pass, and you cannot escape (it).
Bukhari:7278 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when he said (to two men), "I shall judge between you according to Allah's 
Book (Laws)."
Bukhari:7279 Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when he said (to two men), "I shall judge between you according to Allah's 
Book (Laws)."
Bukhari:7280 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "All my followers will enter Paradise except those who refuse." They said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who will refuse?" He said, "Whoever obeys me will enter Paradise, and whoever 
disobeys me is the one who refuses (to enter it)."
Bukhari:7281 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Some angels came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was sleeping. Some of them said, "He is sleeping." Others 
said, "His eyes are sleeping but his heart is awake." Then they said, "There is an example for this 
companion of yours." One of them said, "Then set forth an example for him." Some of them said, "He 
is sleeping." The others said, "His eyes are sleeping but his heart is awake." Then they said, "His 
example is that of a man who has built a house and then offered therein a banquet and sent an inviter 
(messenger) to invite the people. So whoever accepted the invitation of the inviter, entered the house 
and ate of the banquet, and whoever did not accept the invitation of the inviter, did not enter the 
house, nor did he eat of the banquet." Then the angels said, "Interpret this example to him so that he 
may understand it." Some of them said, "He is sleeping.'' The others said, "His eyes are sleeping but 
his heart is awake." And then they said, "The houses stands for Paradise and the call maker is 
Muhammad; and whoever obeys Muhammad, obeys Allah; and whoever disobeys Muhammad, 
disobeys Allah. Muhammad separated the people (i.e., through his message, the good is distinguished 
from the bad, and the believers from the disbelievers).
Bukhari:7282 Narrated Hammam:Hudhaifa said, "O the Group of Al-Qurra! Follow the straight path, for then you have taken a great 
lead (and will be the leaders), but if you divert right or left, then you will go astray far away."
Bukhari:7283 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My example and the example of what I have been sent with is that of a man who 
came to some people and said, 'O people! I have seen the enemy's army with my own eyes, and I am 
the naked warner; so protect yourselves!' Then a group of his people obeyed him and fled at night 
proceeding stealthily till they were safe, while another group of them disbelieved him and stayed at 
their places till morning when the army came upon them, and killed and ruined them completely So 
this is the example of that person who obeys me and follows what I have brought (the Qur'an and the 
Sunna), and the example of the one who disobeys me and disbelieves the truth I have brought."
Bukhari:7284 Narrated Abu Huraira:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died and Abu Bakr was elected as a Caliph after him, some of the Arabs 
reverted to disbelief, `Umar said to Abu Bakr, "How dare you fight the people while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, I have been ordered to fight the people till they say 'None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah' And whoever says: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.' waves his wealth and his 
life from me unless he deserves a legal punishment lusty, and his account will be with Allah! Abu 
Bakr said, "By Allah, I will fight him who discriminates between Zakat and prayers, for Zakat is the 
Compulsory right to be taken from the wealth By Allah, if they refuse to give me even a tying rope 
which they use to give to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I would fight them for withholding it." `Umar said, 'By 
Allah, It was nothing, except I saw that Allah had opened the chest of Abu Bakr to the fight, and I 
came to know for certain that was the truth."
Bukhari:7285 Narrated Abu Huraira:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died and Abu Bakr was elected as a Caliph after him, some of the Arabs 
reverted to disbelief, `Umar said to Abu Bakr, "How dare you fight the people while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, I have been ordered to fight the people till they say 'None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah' And whoever says: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.' waves his wealth and his 
life from me unless he deserves a legal punishment lusty, and his account will be with Allah! Abu 
Bakr said, "By Allah, I will fight him who discriminates between Zakat and prayers, for Zakat is the 
Compulsory right to be taken from the wealth By Allah, if they refuse to give me even a tying rope 
which they use to give to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I would fight them for withholding it." `Umar said, 'By 
Allah, It was nothing, except I saw that Allah had opened the chest of Abu Bakr to the fight, and I 
came to know for certain that was the truth."
Bukhari:7286 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Uyaina bin Hisn bin Hudhaifa bin Badr came and stayed (at Medina) with his nephew Al-Hurr bin 
Qais bin Hisn who was one of those whom `Umar used to keep near him, as the Qurra' (learned men 
knowing Qur'an by heart) were the people of `Umar's meetings and his advisors whether they were old 
or young. 'Uyaina said to his nephew, "O my nephew! Have you an approach to this chief so as to get 
for me the permission to see him?" His nephew said, "I will get the permission for you to see him." 
(Ibn `Abbas added: ) So he took the permission for 'Uyaina, and when the latter entered, he said, "O 
the son of Al-Khattab! By Allah, you neither give us sufficient provision nor judge among us with 
justice." On that `Umar became so furious that he intended to harm him. Al-Hurr, said, "O Chief of 
the Believers!" Allah said to His Apostle 'Hold to forgiveness, command what is good (right), and 
leave the foolish (i.e. do not punish them).' (7.199) and this person is among the foolish." By Allah, 
`Umar did not overlook that Verse when Al-Hurr recited it before him, and `Umar said to observe (the 
orders of) Allah's Book strictly." (See Hadith No. 166, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7287 Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:I came to `Aisha during the solar eclipse. The people were standing (offering prayer) and she too, was 
standing and offering prayer. I asked, "What is wrong with the people?" She pointed towards the sky 
with her hand and said, Subhan Allah!'' I asked her, "Is there a sign?" She nodded with her head 
meaning, yes. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished (the prayer), he glorified and praised Allah and said, 
"There is not anything that I have not seen before but I have seen now at this place of mine, even 
Paradise and Hell. It has been revealed to me that you people will be put to trial nearly like the trial of 
Ad-Dajjal, in your graves. As for the true believer or a Muslim (the sub-narrator is not sure as to 
which of the two (words Asma' had said) he will say, 'Muhammad came with clear signs from Allah, 
and we responded to him (accepted his teachings) and believed (what he said)' It will be said (to him) 
'Sleep in peace; we have known that you were a true believer who believed with certainty.' As for a 
hypocrite or a doubtful person, (the sub-narrator is not sure as to which word Asma' said) he will say, 
'I do not know, but I heard the people saying something and so I said the same.' "
Bukhari:7288 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave me as I leave you, for the people who were before you were ruined because 
of their questions and their differences over their prophets. So, if I forbid you to do something, then 
keep away from it. And if I order you to do something, then do of it as much as you can."
Bukhari:7289 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most sinful person among the Muslims is the one who asked about something 
which had not been prohibited, but was prohibited because of his asking."
Bukhari:7290 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:The Prophet (ﷺ) took a room made of date palm leaves mats in the mosque. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed in it 
for a few nights till the people gathered (to pray the night prayer (Tarawih) (behind him.) Then on the 
4th night the people did not hear his voice and they thought he had slept, so some of them started 
humming in order that he might come out. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "You continued doing what I saw 
you doing till I was afraid that this (Tarawih prayer) might be enjoined on you, and if it were enjoined 
on you, you would not continue performing it. Therefore, O people! Perform your prayers at your 
homes, for the best prayer of a person is what is performed at his home except the compulsory 
congregational) prayer." (See Hadith No. 229,Vol. 3) (See Hadith No. 134, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7291 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about things which he disliked, and when the people asked too many 
questions, he became angry and said, "Ask me (any question)." A man got up and said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Your father is Hudhaifa." Then another man got up 
and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your father is Salim, Maula 
Shaiba." When `Umar saw the signs of anger on the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said, "We repent to 
Allah."
Bukhari:7292 Narrated Warrad:(The clerk of Al-Mughira) Muawiya wrote to Al-Mughira 'Write to me what you have heard from 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' So he (Al-Mughira) wrote to him: Allah's Prophet used to say at the end of each 
prayer: "La ilaha illalla-h wahdahu la sharika lahu, lahul Mulku, wa lahul Hamdu wa hula ala kulli 
shai'in qadir. 'Allahumma la mani' a lima a'taita, wala mu'tiya lima mana'ta, wala yanfa'u dhuljadd 
minkal-jadd." He also wrote to him that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to forbid (1) Qil and Qal (idle useless talk or 
that you talk too much about others), (2) Asking too many questions (in disputed Religious matters); 
(3) And wasting one's wealth by extravagance; (4) and to be undutiful to one's mother (5) and to bury 
the daughters alive (6) and to prevent your favors (benevolence to others (i.e. not to pay the rights of 
others (7) And asking others for something (except when it is unavoidable).
Bukhari:7293 Narrated Anas:We were with `Umar and he said, "We have been forbidden to undertake a difficult task beyond our 
capability (i.e. to exceed the religious limits e.g., to clean the inside of the eyes while doing ablution).
Bukhari:7294 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) came out after the sun had declined and offered the Zuhr prayer (in congregation). After 
finishing it with Taslim, he stood on the pulpit and mentioned the Hour and mentioned there would 
happen great events before it. Then he said, "Whoever wants to ask me any question, may do so, for 
by Allah, you will not ask me about anything but I will inform you of its answer as long as I am at this 
place of mine." On this, the Ansar wept violently, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on saying, "Ask Me! " 
Then a man got up and asked, ''Where will my entrance be, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"(You will go to) the Fire." Then `Abdullah bin Hudhaifa got up and asked, "Who is my father, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Your father is Hudhaifa." The Prophet (ﷺ) then kept on saying 
(angrily), "Ask me! Ask me!" `Umar then knelt on his knees and said, "We have accepted Allah as our 
Lord and Islam as our religion and Muhammad as an Apostle." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became quiet when 
`Umar said that. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, Paradise and Hell 
were displayed before me across this wall while I was praying, and I never saw such good and evil as 
I have seen today."
Bukhari:7295 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man said, "O Allah's Prophet! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your father is so-and-so." 
And then the Divine Verse:-- 'O you who believe! Ask not questions about things..(5.101)
Bukhari:7296 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "People will not stop asking questions till they say, 'This is Allah, the Creator of 
everything, then who created Allah?' "
Bukhari:7297 Narrated Ibn Masud:I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) at one of the farms of Medina while he was leaning on a date palm leaf-stalk. 
He passed by a group of Jews and some of them said to the other, Ask him (the Prophet) about the 
spirit. Some others said, "Do not ask him, lest he should tell you what you dislike" But they went up 
to him and said, "O Abal Qasim! Inform us bout the spirit." The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up for a while, waiting. 
I realized that he was being Divinely Inspired, so I kept away from him till the inspiration was over. 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(O Muhammad) they ask you regarding the spirit, Say: The spirit its 
knowledge is with my Lord (i.e., nobody has its knowledge except Allah)" (17.85) (This is a miracle 
of the Qur'an that all the scientists up till now do not know about the spirit, i.e, how life comes to a 
body and how it goes away at its death) (See Hadith No. 245, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7298 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) wore a gold ring and then the people followed him and wore gold rings too. Then the 
Prophet said, "I had this golden ring made for myself. He then threw it away and said, "I shall never 
put it on." Thereupon the people also threw their rings away.
Bukhari:7299 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Do not fast Al-Wisal." They said, "But you fast Al-Wisail." 
He said, "I am not like you, for at night my Lord feeds me and makes me drink." But the people did 
not give up Al-Wisal, so the Prophet (ﷺ) fasted Al-Wisal with them for two days or two nights, and then 
they saw the crescent whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the crescent had delayed, I would have 
continued fasting (because of you)," as if he wanted to vanquish them completely (because they had 
refused to give up Al Wisal).
Bukhari:7300 Narrated Ibrahim At Taimi's father:`Ali addressed us while he was standing on a brick pulpit and carrying a sword from which was hanging a scroll He said "By Allah, we have no book to read except Allah's Book and whatever is on this scroll," And then he unrolled it, and behold, in it was written what sort of camels were to be given as blood money, and there was also written in it: 'Medina is a sanctuary form 'Air (mountain) to such 
and such place so whoever innovates in it an heresy or commits a sin therein, he will incur the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people and Allah will not accept his compulsory or optional good deeds.' 
There was also written in it: 'The asylum (pledge of protection) granted by any Muslims is one and the 
same, (even a Muslim of the lowest status is to be secured and respected by all the other Muslims, and 
whoever betrays a Muslim in this respect (by violating the pledge) will incur the curse of Allah, the 
angels, and all the people, and Allah will not accept his compulsory or optional good deeds.' There 
was also written in it: 'Whoever (freed slave) befriends (takes as masters) other than his real masters 
(manumitters) without their permission will incur the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people, 
and Allah will not accept his compulsory or optional good deeds. ' (See Hadith No. 94, Vol. 3)
Bukhari:7301 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) did something as it was allowed from the religious point of view but some people 
refrained from it. When the Prophet (ﷺ) heard of that, he, after glorifying and praising Allah, said, "Why 
do some people refrain from doing something which I do? By Allah, I know Allah more than they."
Bukhari:7302 Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:Once the two righteous men, i.e., Abu Bakr and `Umar were on the verge of destruction (and that was 
because): When the delegate of Bani Tamim came to the Prophet, one of them (either Abu Bakr or 
`Umar) recommended Al-Aqra' bin H`Abis at-Tamimi Al-Hanzali, the brother of Bani Majashi (to be 
appointed as their chief), while the other recommended somebody else. Abu Bakr said to `Umar, "You 
intended only to oppose me." `Umar said, "I did not intend to oppose you!" Then their voices grew 
louder in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) whereupon there was revealed: 'O you who believe! Do not raise your 
voices above the voice of the Prophet..a great reward.' (49.2-3) Ibn Az-Zubair said, 'Thence forward 
when `Umar talked to the Prophet, he would talk like one who whispered a secret and would even fail 
to make the Prophet (ﷺ) hear him, in which case the Prophet (ﷺ) would ask him (to repeat his words).
Bukhari:7303 Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of believers) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during his fatal ailment said, "Order Abu Bakr to lead the 
people in prayer." I said, "If Abu Bakr stood at your place (in prayers, the people will not be able to 
hear him because of his weeping, so order `Umar to lead the people in prayer." He again said, "Order 
Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer " Then I said to Hafsa, "Will you say (to the Prophet), 'If Abu 
Bakr stood at your place, the people will not be able to hear him be cause of his weeping, so order 
`Umar to lead the people in prayer?" Hafsa did so, whereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You are like the 
companions of Joseph (See Qur'an, 12:30-32). Order Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." Hafsa 
then said to me, "I have never received any good from you!"
Bukhari:7304 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi:'Uwaimir Al-`Ajlani came to `Asim bin `Adi and said, "If a man found another man with his wife and 
killed him, would you sentence the husband to death (in Qisas,) i.e., equality in punishment)? O 
`Asim! Please ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about this matter on my behalf." `Asim asked the Prophet (ﷺ) but the 
Prophet disliked the question and disapproved of it. `Asim returned and informed 'Uwaimir that the 
Prophet disliked that type of question. 'Uwaimir said, "By Allah, I will go (personally) to the Prophet." 
'Uwaimir came to the Prophet (ﷺ) when Allah had already revealed Qur'anic Verses (in that respect), after 
`Asim had left (the Prophet (ﷺ) ). So the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Uwaimir, "Allah has revealed Qur'anic Verses 
regarding you and your wife." The Prophet (ﷺ) then called for them, and they came and carried out the 
order of Lian. 
Then 'Uwaimir said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Now if I kept her with me, I would be accused of telling a 
lie." So 'Uwaimir divorced her although the Prophet (ﷺ) did not order him to do so. Later on this practice 
of divorcing became the tradition of couples involved in a case of Li'an. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the 
people). "Wait for her! If she delivers a red short (small) child like a Wahra (a short red animal). then 
I will be of the opinion that he ('Uwaimir) has told a lie but if she delivered a black big-eyed one with 
big buttocks, then I will be of the opinion that he has told the truth about her." 'Ultimately she gave 
birth to a child that proved the accusation. (See Hadith No. 269, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7305 Narrated Malik bin Aus An-Nasri:I proceeded till I entered upon `Umar (and while I was sitting there), his gate-keeper Yarfa came to 
him and said, " `Uthman, `Abdur-Rahman, Az-Zubair and Sa`d ask your permission to come in." 
`Umar allowed them. So they entered, greeted, and sat down. (After a while the gatekeeper came) and 
said, "Shall I admit `Ali and `Abbas?'' `Umar allowed them to enter. Al-`Abbas said "O Chief of the 
believers! Judge between me and the oppressor (`Ali)." Then there was a dispute (regarding the 
property of Bani Nadir) between them (`Abbas and `Ali). `Uthman and his companions said, "O Chief 
of the Believers! Judge between them and relieve one from the other." `Umar said, "Be patient! 
beseech you by Allah, with Whose permission the Heaven and the Earth Exist! Do you know that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Our property is not to be inherited, and whatever we leave is to be given in 
charity,' and by this Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) meant himself?" On that the group said, "He verily said so." 
`Umar then faced `Ali and `Abbas and said, "I beseech you both by Allah, do you both know that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said so?" They both replied, "Yes". `Umar then said, "Now I am talking to you about 
this matter (in detail) . Allah favored Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with some of this wealth which He did not give 
to anybody else, as Allah said: 'What Allah bestowed as Fai (Booty on His Apostle for which you 
made no expedition... ' (59.6) 
So that property was totally meant for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), yet he did not collect it and ignore you, nor did 
he withhold it with your exclusion, but he gave it to you and distributed it among you till this much of 
it was left behind, and the Prophet, used to spend of this as the yearly expenditures of his family and 
then take what remained of it and spent it as he did with (other) Allah's wealth. The Prophet (ﷺ) did so 
during all his lifetime, and I beseech you by Allah, do you know that?" They replied, "Yes." `Umar 
then addressed `Ali and `Abbas, saying, "I beseech you both by Allah, do you know that?" Both of 
them replied, "Yes." `Umar added, "Then Allah took His Apostle unto Him. Abu Bakr then said 'I am 
the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)' and took over all the Prophet's property and disposed of it in the 
same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do, and you were present then." Then he turned to `Ali and 
`Abbas and said, "You both claim that Abu Bakr did so-and-so in managing the property, but Allah 
knows that Abu Bakr was honest, righteous, intelligent, and a follower of what is right in managing it. 
Then Allah took Abu Bakr unto Him, 'I said: I am the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr.' So 
I took over the property for two years and managed it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Abu 
Bakr used to do. Then you both (`Ali and `Abbas) came to me and asked for the same thing! (O 
`Abbas! You came to me to ask me for your share from nephew's property; and this (`Ali) came to me 
asking for his wives share from her father's property, and I said to you both, 'If you wish, I will place 
it in your custody on condition that you both will manage it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
Abu Bakr did and as I have been doing since I took charge of managing it; otherwise, do not speak to 
me anymore about it.' 
Then you both said, 'Give it to us on that (condition).' So I gave it to you on that condition. Now I 
beseech you by Allah, did I not give it to them on that condition?" The group (whom he had been 
addressing) replied, "Yes." `Umar then addressed `Abbas and `Ali saying, "I beseech you both by 
Allah, didn't I give you all that property on that condition?" They said, "Yes." `Umar then said, "Are 
you now seeking a verdict from me other than that? By Him with Whose Permission the Heaven and 
the Earth exists I will not give any verdict other than that till the Hour is established; and if you both 
are unable to manage this property, then you can hand it back to me, and I will be sufficient for it on 
your behalf." (See, Hadith No. 326, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:7306 Narrated `Asim:I said to Anas, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) make Medina a sanctuary?" He replied, "Yes, (Medina is a 
sanctuary from such-and-such place to such-and-such place. It is forbidden to cut its trees, and 
whoever innovates an heresy in it or commits a sin therein, will incur the curse of Allah, the angels, 
and all the people." Then Musa bin Anas told me that Anas added, "..... or gives refuge to such an 
heretic or a sinner..."
Bukhari:7307 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah will not deprive you of knowledge after he has given it to you, but 
it will be taken away through the death of the religious learned men with their knowledge. Then there 
will remain ignorant people who, when consulted, will give verdicts according to their opinions 
whereby they will mislead others and go astray."
Bukhari:7308 Narrated Al-A`mash:I asked Abu Wail, "Did you witness the battle of Siffin between `Ali and Muawiya?" He said, "Yes," 
and added, "Then I heard Sahl bin Hunaif saying, 'O people! Blame your personal opinions in your 
religion. No doubt, I remember myself on the day of Abi Jandal; if I had the power to refuse the order 
of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I would have refused it. 
We have never put our swords on our shoulders to get involved in a situation that might have been 
horrible for us, but those swords brought us to victory and peace, except this present situation.' " Abu 
Wail said, "I witnessed the battle of Siffin, and how nasty Siffin was!"
Bukhari:7309 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I fell ill, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came to visit me on foot. The Prophet (ﷺ) came to me while I was 
unconscious. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed ablution and poured the Remaining water of his ablution over 
me whereupon I became conscious and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How should I spend my wealth? Or 
how should I deal with my wealth?" But the Prophet (ﷺ) did not give me any reply till the Verse of the 
laws of inheritance was revealed.
Bukhari:7310 Narrated Abu Sa`id:A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Men (only) benefit by your teachings, 
so please devote to us from (some of) your time, a day on which we may come to you so that you may 
teach us of what Allah has taught you." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Gather on such-and-such a day at suchand- 
such a place." They gathered and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to them and taught them of what Allah 
had taught him. He then said, "No woman among you who has lost her three children (died) but that 
they will screen her from the Fire." A woman among them said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If she lost two 
children?" She repeated her question twice, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Even two, even two, even 
two!" (See Hadith No. 341, Vol. 2)
Bukhari:7311 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A group of my follower swill remain predominant (victorious) till Allah's Order 
(the Hour) comes upon them while they are still predominant (victorious).
Bukhari:7312 Narrated Humaid:I heard Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan delivering a sermon. He said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If Allah 
wants to do a favor to somebody, He bestows on him, the gift of understanding the Qur'an and Sunna. 
I am but a distributor, and Allah is the Giver. The state of this nation will remain good till the Hour is 
established, or till Allah's Order comes."
Bukhari:7313 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:When the (following) Verse was revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): 'Say: He has power to send torment on 
you from above,'..(6.65) he said, "O Allah! I seek refuge with Your Face (from that punishment)." 
And when this was revealed: '..or from beneath your feet.' (6.65) he said, "O Allah! I seek refuge with 
Your Face (from that)." And when this Verse was revealed: '..or to cover you with confusion in partystrife, 
and make you to taste the violence of one another,'...(6.65) he said: "These two warnings are 
easier (than the previous ones).
Bukhari:7314 Narrated Abu Huraira:A bedouin came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "My wife has delivered a black boy, and I suspect that he 
is not my child." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Have you got camels?" The bedouin said, "Yes." The 
Prophet said, "What color are they?" The bedouin said, "They are red." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are any of 
them Grey?" He said, "There are Grey ones among them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whence do you think 
this color came to them?" The bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It resulted from hereditary 
disposition." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "And this (i.e., your child) has inherited his color from his ancestors." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) did not allow him to deny his paternity of the child.
Bukhari:7315 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "My mother vowed to perform the Hajj but she died before 
performing it. Should I perform the Hajj on her behalf?" He said, "Yes! Perform the Hajj on her 
behalf. See, if your mother had been in debt, would you have paid her debt?" She said, "Yes." He said, 
"So you should pay what is for Him as Allah has more right that one should fulfill one's obligations to 
Him. "
Bukhari:7316 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not wish to be like anybody except in two cases: The case of a man whom 
Allah has given wealth and he spends it in the right way, and that of a man whom Allah has given 
religious wisdom (i.e., Qur'an and Sunna) and he gives his verdicts according to it and teaches it." (to 
others i.e., religious knowledge of Qur'an and Sunna (Prophet's Traditions)). "
Bukhari:7317 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:`Umar bin Al-Khattab asked (the people) about the Imlas of a woman, i.e., a woman who has an 
abortion because of having been beaten on her `Abdomen, saying, "Who among you has heard 
anything about it from the Prophet?" I said, "I did.'' He said, "What is that?" I said, "I heard the 
Prophet saying, "Its Diya (blood money) is either a male or a female slave.' " `Umar said, "Do not 
leave till you present witness in support of your statement." So I went out, and found Muhammad bin 
Maslama. I brought him, and he bore witness with me that he had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Its Diya 
(blood money) is either a male slave or a female slave."
Bukhari:7318 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:`Umar bin Al-Khattab asked (the people) about the Imlas of a woman, i.e., a woman who has an 
abortion because of having been beaten on her `Abdomen, saying, "Who among you has heard 
anything about it from the Prophet?" I said, "I did.'' He said, "What is that?" I said, "I heard the 
Prophet saying, "Its Diya (blood money) is either a male or a female slave.' " `Umar said, "Do not 
leave till you present witness in support of your statement." So I went out, and found Muhammad bin 
Maslama. I brought him, and he bore witness with me that he had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Its Diya 
(blood money) is either a male slave or a female slave."
Bukhari:7319 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till my followers copy the deeds of the previous 
nations and follow them very closely, span by span, and cubit by cubit (i.e., inch by inch)." It was 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you mean by those (nations) the Persians and the Byzantines?" The 
Prophet said, "Who can it be other than they?"
Bukhari:7320 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will follow the ways of those nations who were before you, span by span and 
cubit by cubit (i.e., inch by inch) so much so that even if they entered a hole of a mastigure, you 
would follow them." We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (Do you mean) the Jews and the Christians?" He 
said, "Whom else?"
Bukhari:7321 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None is killed unjustly, but the first son of Adam will have a part of its burden." 
Sufyan said, "..a part of its blood because he was the first to establish the tradition of murdering"
Bukhari:7322 Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah As-Salami:A bedouin gave the Pledge of allegiance for embracing Islam to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and then he got an attack of fever in Medina and came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Cancel my pledge." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) refused to do so. The bedouin came to him again and said, "Cancel my pledge," but he refused again, and then again, the bedouin came to him and said, "Cancel my pledge," and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) refused. The bedouin finally went away, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Medina is like a pair of bellows (furnace), it expels its impurities while it brightens and clears its good.'
Bukhari:7323 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:I used to teach Qur'an to 'Abdur-Rahman bin Auf. When Umar performed his last Hajj, 'Abdur-Rahman said (to me) at Mina, "Would that you had seen Chief of the believers today! A man came to him and said, "So-and-so has said, "If Chief of the Believers died, we will give the oath of allegiance to such-and-such person,' 'Umar said, 'I will get up tonight and warn those who want to usurp the people's rights.' I said, 'Do not do so, for the season (of Hajj) gathers the riffraff mob who will form the majority of your audience, and I am afraid that they will not understand (the meaning of) your saying properly and may spread (an incorrect statement) everywhere. You should wait till we reach Medina, the place of migration and the place of the Sunna (the Prophet's Traditions). There you will meet the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from the Muhajirin and the Ansar who will understand your statement and place it in its proper position' 'Umar said, 'By Allah, I shall do so the first time I stand (to address the people) in Medina.' When we reached Medina, 'Umar (in a Friday Khutba-sermon) said, "No doubt, Allah sent Muhammad with the Truth and revealed to him the Book (Quran), and among what was revealed, was the Verse of Ar-Rajm (stoning adulterers to death).'" (See Hadith No. 817,Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7324 Narrated Muhammad:We were with Abu Huraira while he was wearing two linen garments dyed with red clay. He cleaned 
his nose with his garment, saying, "Bravo! Bravo! Abu Huraira is cleaning his nose with linen! There 
came a time when I would fall senseless between the pulpit of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and `Aisha's dwelling 
whereupon a passerby would come and put his foot on my neck, considering me a mad man, but in 
fact, I had no madness, I suffered nothing but hunger."
Bukhari:7325 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Abis:Ibn `Abbas was asked, "Did you offer the Id prayer with the Prophet?" He said, "Yes, had it not been 
for my close relation to the Prophet, I would not have performed it (with him) because of my being 
too young The Prophet (ﷺ) came to the mark which is near the home of Kathir bin As-Salt and offered the 
Id prayer and then delivered the sermon. I do not remember if any Adhan or Iqama were pronounced 
for the prayer. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered (the women) to give alms, and they started stretching out 
their hands towards their ears and throats (giving their ornaments in charity), and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered 
Bilal to go to them (to collect the alms), and then Bilal returned to the Prophet.
Bukhari:7326 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Quba' mosque, sometimes walking, sometimes riding.
Bukhari:7327 Narrated Hisham's father:`Aisha said to `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, "Bury me with my female companions (i.e. the wives of the 
Prophet) and do not bury me with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the house, for I do not like to be regarded as 
sanctified (just for being buried there).'' 
Narrated Hisham's father: `Umar sent a message to `Aisha, saying, "Will you allow me to be buried 
with my two companions (the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr) ?" She said, "Yes, by Allah." though it was her 
habit that if a man from among the companions (of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) sent her a message asking her to 
allow him to be buried there, she would say, "No, by Allah, I will never give permission to anyone to 
be buried with them."
Bukhari:7328 Narrated Hisham's father:`Aisha said to `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, "Bury me with my female companions (i.e. the wives of the 
Prophet) and do not bury me with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the house, for I do not like to be regarded as 
sanctified (just for being buried there).'' 
Narrated Hisham's father: `Umar sent a message to `Aisha, saying, "Will you allow me to be buried 
with my two companions (the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr) ?" She said, "Yes, by Allah." though it was her 
habit that if a man from among the companions (of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) sent her a message asking her to 
allow him to be buried there, she would say, "No, by Allah, I will never give permission to anyone to 
be buried with them."
Bukhari:7329 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to perform the `Asr prayer and then one could reach the `Awali (a place in the 
outskirts of Medina) while the sun was still quite high. 
Narrated Yunus: The distance of the `Awali (from Medina) was four or three miles.
Bukhari:7330 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:The Sa' (a kind of measure) during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be equal to the one Mudd 
(another kind of measure) and one third of a Mudd which we use today, but the Sa' of today has 
become large.
Bukhari:7331 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessings on their measures, and bestow Your Blessings 
on their Sa' and Mudd." He meant those of the people of Medina.
Bukhari:7332 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Jews brought a man and a woman who had committed illegal sexual intercourse, to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to be stoned to death, and they were stoned to death near the mosque 
where the biers used to be placed.
Bukhari:7333 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Mountain of Uhud came in sight of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who then said, "This is a mountain that loves 
us and is loved by us. O Allah! Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary and I make the area between its 
(Medina's) two mountains a sanctuary."
Bukhari:7334 Narrated Sahl:The distance between the pulpit and the wall of the mosque on the side of the Qibla was just sufficient 
for a sheep to pass through.
Bukhari:7335 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden from one of the gardens of 
Paradise, and my pulpit is over my Lake-Tank. (Kauthar);
Bukhari:7336 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arranged for a horse race, and the prepared horses were given less food 
for a few days before the race to win the race, and were allowed to run from Al-Hafya to Thaniyat-al- 
Wada`, and the unprepared horses were allowed to run between Thaniyat-al-Wada` and the mosque of 
Bani Zuraiq," `Abdullah was one of those who participated in the race.
Bukhari:7337 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard `Umar (delivering a sermon) on the pulpit of the Prophet.
Bukhari:7338 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:That he heard `Uthman bin `Affan delivering a sermon on the pulpit of the Prophet
Bukhari:7339 Narrated `Aisha:This big copper vessel used to be put for me and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we would take water from it 
together (on taking a bath) .
Bukhari:7340 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) brought the Ansar and the Quarish people into alliance in my house at Medina, and he 
invoked Allah for one month against the tribe of Bani Sulaim in (the last rak`a of each compulsory) 
prayer.
Bukhari:7341 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) brought the Ansar and the Quarish people into alliance in my house at Medina, and he 
invoked Allah for one month against the tribe of Bani Sulaim in (the last rak`a of each compulsory) 
prayer.
Bukhari:7342 Narrated Abu Burda:When I arrived at Medina, `Abdullah bin Salam met me and said to me, "Accompany me to my house 
so that I may make you drink from a bowl from which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to drink, and that you may 
offer prayer in the mosque in which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray." I accompanied him, and he made me 
drink Sawiq and gave me dates to eat, and then I prayed in his mosque.
Bukhari:7343 Narrated `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Someone came to me tonight from my Lord while I was in the 'Aqiq 
(valley), and said to me, "Offer prayer in this blessed valley and say: 'Labbaik' for the (performance 
of) `Umra and Hajj."
Bukhari:7344 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Qarn as the Miqat (for assuming the Ihram) for the people of 
Najd, and Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham, and Dhul-Hulaifa for the people of Medina." Ibn `Umar 
added, "I heard this from the Prophet, and I have been informed that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The Miqat for 
the Yemenites is Yalamlam.' "When Iraq was mentioned, he said, "At that time it was not a Muslim 
country."
Bukhari:7345 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a dream in the last portion of the night when he was sleeping at Dhul-Hulaifa. (I n 
the dream) it was said to him, "You are in a blessed Batha' (i.e., valley).
Bukhari:7346 Narrated Ibn `Umar:That he heard the Prophet, after raising his head from the bowing in morning prayer, saying, "O Allah, 
our Lord! All the praises are for you." And in the last (rak`a) he said, "O Allah! Curse so-and-so and 
so--and-so." And then Allah revealed:-- 'Not for you (O Muhammad) is the decision, (but for Allah), 
whether He turns in mercy to them or punish them, for they are indeed wrongdoers.' (3.128)
Bukhari:7347 Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to him and Fatima the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at their house at night 
and said, "Won't you pray?" `Ali replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Our souls are in the Hands of Allah and 
when he wants us to get up, He makes us get up." When `Ali said that to him, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left 
without saying anything to him. While the Prophet (ﷺ) was leaving, `Ali heard him striking his thigh (with 
his hand) and saying, "But man is quarrelsome more than anything else." (18.54)
Bukhari:7348 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were in the mosque, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out and said, "Let us proceed to the Jews." So we 
went out with him till we came to Bait-al-Midras. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up there and called them, saying, 
"O assembly of Jews! Surrender to Allah (embrace Islam) and you will be safe!" They said, "You 
have conveyed Allah's message, O Aba-al-Qasim" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said to them, "That is what I 
want; embrace Islam and you will be safe." They said, "You have conveyed the message, O Aba-al- 
Qasim." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said to them, "That is what I want," and repeated his words for the third 
time and added, "Know that the earth is for Allah and I want to exile you from this land, so whoever 
among you has property he should sell it, otherwise, know that the land is for Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:7349 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Noah will be brought (before Allah) on the Day of Resurrection, and will be 
asked, 'Did you convey the message of Allah?" He will reply, 'Yes, O Lord.' And then Noah's nation 
will be asked, 'Did he (Noah) convey Allah's message to you?' They will reply, 'No warner came to 
us.' Then Noah will be asked, 'Who are your witnesses?' He will reply. '(My witnesses are) 
Muhammad and his followers.' Thereupon you (Muslims) will be brought and you will bear witness." 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'And thus We have made of you (Muslims) a just and the best nation, that 
you might be witness over the nations, and the Apostle a witness over you.' (2.143)
Bukhari:7350 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent the brother of the tribe of Bani Adi Al-Ansari as governor of Khaibar. Then the 
man returned, bringing Janib (a good kind of date). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked him, "Are all the dates of 
Khaibar like that?" He replied, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We take one Sa' of these (good) 
dates for two Sas of mixed dates." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "Do not do so. You should either take 
one Sa of this (kind) for one Sa' of the other; or sell one kind and then buy with its price the other kind 
(of dates), and you should do the same in weighing."
Bukhari:7351 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent the brother of the tribe of Bani Adi Al-Ansari as governor of Khaibar. Then the 
man returned, bringing Janib (a good kind of date). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked him, "Are all the dates of 
Khaibar like that?" He replied, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We take one Sa' of these (good) 
dates for two Sas of mixed dates." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "Do not do so. You should either take 
one Sa of this (kind) for one Sa' of the other; or sell one kind and then buy with its price the other kind 
(of dates), and you should do the same in weighing."
Bukhari:7352 Narrated `Amr bin Al-`As:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If a judge gives a verdict according to the best of his 
knowledge and his verdict is correct (i.e. agrees with Allah and His Apostle's verdict) he will receive a 
double reward, and if he gives a verdict according to the best of his knowledge and his verdict is 
wrong, (i.e. against that of Allah and His Apostle) even then he will get a reward ."
Bukhari:7353 Narrated 'Ubai bin `Umar:Abu Musa asked permission to enter upon `Umar, but seeing that he was busy, he went away. `Umar 
then said, "Didn't I hear the voice of `Abdullah bin Qais? Allow him to come in." He was called in and 
`Umar said to him, "What made you do what you did." He replied, "We have been instructed thus by 
the Prophet" `Umar said, "Bring proof (witness) for this, other wise I will do so-and-so to you." Then 
`Abdullah bin Qais went to a gathering of the Ansar who then said, "None but the youngest of us will 
give the witness for it." So Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri got up and said, "We used to be instructed thus (by 
the Prophet)." `Umar said, "This tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ) remained hidden from me. Business in the 
market kept me busy."
Bukhari:7354 Narrated Al-A'raj:Abu Huraira said, "You people claim that Abu Huraira narrates many narrations of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
(Anyhow) with Allah will be our appointment. I was a poor man, and used to stick to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
contented with what will fill my stomach, and the Muhajirin (emigrants) used to be busy trading in the 
markets, and the Ansar used to be busy looking after their properties. One-day I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
saying, 'Who will spread his Rida' (a garment covering the upper part of the body) till I finished my 
speech and then fold it, (i.e. wrap it over your body), in which case he will never forget anything he 
had heard from me." So I spread my garment which I was wearing; and by Him Who sent Muhammad 
with the Truth, ever since, I have never forgotten whatever I heard from him (the Prophet)" (See, 
Hadith No. 119, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7355 Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Munkadir:I saw Jabir bin `Abdullah swearing by Allah that Ibn Sayyad was the Dajjal. I said to Jabir, "How can 
you swear by Allah?" Jabir said, "I have heard `Umar swearing by Allah regarding this matter in the 
presence of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) did not disapprove of it."
Bukhari:7356 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Horses may be used for three purposes: For a man they may be a source of 
reward (in the Hereafter); for another, a means of protection; and for another, a source of sin. The man 
for whom they are a source of reward, is the one who keeps them for Allah's Cause and ties them with 
long ropes and lets them graze in a pasture or garden. Whatever those long ropes allow them to eat of 
that pasture or garden, will be written as good deeds for him and if they break their ropes and run one 
or two rounds, then all their footsteps and dung will be written as good deeds for him, and if they pass 
a river and drink from it though he has had no intention of watering them, even then, that will be 
written as good deeds for him. So such horses are a source of reward for that man. For the man who 
keeps horses for his livelihood in order not to ask others for help or beg his bread, and at the same 
time he does not forget Allah's right of what he earns through them and of their backs (that he presents 
it to be used in Allah's Cause), such horses are a shelter for him (from poverty). For the man who 
keeps them just out of pride and for showing off, they are a source of sin." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was 
asked about donkeys. He said, "Allah has not revealed anything to me regarding them except this 
comprehensive Verse: 
"Then anyone who has done good, equal to the weight of an atom (or a small ant) shall see it, and any 
one who has done evil, equal to the weight of an atom (or a small ant) shall see it." (99.7-8)
Bukhari:7357 Narrated `Aisha:A woman asked the Prophet (Hadith 456).Narrated `Aisha:A woman asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the periods: How to take a bath after the periods. He said, "Take a 
perfumed piece of cloth and clean yourself with it." She said,' "How shall I clean myself with it, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Clean yourself" She said again, "How shall I clean myself, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Clean yourself with it." Then I knew what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
meant. So I pulled her aside and explained it to her.
Bukhari:7358 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Um Hufaid bint Al-Harith bin Hazn presented the Prophet (ﷺ) with some butter, dried yoghurt (curd milk) 
and mastigures as a gift. The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for a meal (mastigures etc. to be put) and it was eaten 
over his table cloth, but the Prophet (ﷺ) did not eat of it, as he had aversion to it. But if it had been illegal 
to eat, it would not have been eaten over his table cloth nor would he have ordered that (mastigures 
meat) to be eaten.
Bukhari:7359 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has eaten garlic or onion, should keep away from us, or should keep 
away from our mosque and should stay at home." Ibn Wahb said, "Once a plate full of cooked 
vegetables was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) at Badr. Detecting a bad smell from it, he asked about the dish 
and was informed of the kinds of vegetables in contained. He then said, "Bring it near," and so it was 
brought near to one of his companions who was with him. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw it, he disliked 
eating it and said (to his companion), "Eat, for I talk in secret to ones whom you do not talk to."
Bukhari:7360 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:A lady came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she talked to him about something, and he gave her some order. 
She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I should not find you?" He said, "If you should not find me, then go to 
Abu Bakr." Ibrahim bin Sa`d said, "As if she meant the death (of the Prophet).
Bukhari:7361 Narrated Humaid bin 'Abdur-Rahman that he heard Mu'awiya talking to a group of people from Quraish at Al-Madina, and on mentioning Ka'b Al-Ashbar, he said, "He was one of the most truthful of those who used to talk about the people of the Scripture, yet we used to detect certain faults in his information."
Bukhari:7362 Narrated Abu Huraira:The people of the Book used to read the Torah in Hebrew and then explain it in Arabic to the 
Muslims. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to the Muslims). "Do not believe the people of the Book, nor 
disbelieve them, but say, 'We believe in Allah and whatever is revealed to us, and whatever is 
revealed to you.' "
Bukhari:7363 Narrated Ubaidullah:Ibn `Abbas said, "Why do you ask the people of the scripture about anything while your Book 
(Qur'an) which has been revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is newer and the latest? You read it pure, 
undistorted and unchanged, and Allah has told you that the people of the scripture (Jews and 
Christians) changed their scripture and distorted it, and wrote the scripture with their own hands and 
said, 'It is from Allah,' to sell it for a little gain. Does not the knowledge which has come to you 
prevent you from asking them about anything? No, by Allah, we have never seen any man from them 
asking you regarding what has been revealed to you!"
Bukhari:7364 Narrated Jundab bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as you are in agreement as to its 
interpretation and meanings, but when you have differences regarding its interpretation and meanings, 
then you should stop reciting it (for the time being.) (See Hadith No 581, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7365 Narrated Jundab bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as your hearts are in agreement as to its 
meanings, but if you have differences as regards its meaning, stop reading it then."
Bukhari:7366 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the time of the death of the Prophet (ﷺ) approached while there were some men in the house, and 
among them was `Umar bin Al-Khatttab, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Come near let me write for you a writing 
after which you will never go astray." `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) is seriously ill, and you have the 
Qur'an, so Allah's Book is sufficient for us." The people in the house differed and disputed. Some of 
them said, "Come near so that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) may write for you a writing after which you will not go 
astray," while some of them said what `Umar said. When they made much noise and differed greatly 
before the Prophet, he said to them, "Go away and leave me." Ibn `Abbas used to say, "It was a great 
disaster that their difference and noise prevented Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from writing that writing for them.
Bukhari:7367 Narrated Ata:I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah in a gathering saying, "We, the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assumed 
the state of Ihram to perform only Hajj without `Umra." Jabir added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Mecca) 
on the fourth of Dhul-Hijja. And when we arrived (in Mecca) the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to finish the state 
of Ihram, saying, "Finish your lhram and go to your wives (for sexual relation)." Jabir added, "The 
Prophet did not oblige us (to go to our wives) but he only made that legal for us. Then he heard that 
we were saying, "When there remains only five days between us and the Day of `Arafat he orders us 
to finish our Ihram by sleeping with our wives in which case we will proceed to `Arafat with our male 
organs dribbling with semen?' (Jabir pointed out with his hand illustrating what he was saying). 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and said, 'You (People) know that I am the most Allah-fearing, the most 
truthful and the best doer of good deeds (pious) from among you. If I had not brought the Hadi with 
me, I would have finished my Ihram as you will do, so finish your Ihram. If I had formerly known 
what I came to know lately, I would not have brought the Hadi with me.' So we finished our Ihram 
and listened to the Prophet (ﷺ) and obeyed him." (See Hadith No. 713, Vol. 2)
Bukhari:7368 Narrated `Abdullah Al Muzam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform (an optional) prayer before Maghrib prayer." (He repeated it thrice) and 
the third time he said, "Whoever wants to offer it can do so," lest the people should take it as a Sunna 
(tradition). (See Hadith No. 277, Vol. 2)
Bukhari:7369 Narrated `Aisha:After the slanderers had given a forged statement against her, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called `Ali bin Abi Talib 
and Usama bin Zaid when the Divine Inspiration was delayed. He wanted to ask them and consult 
them about the question of divorcing me. Usama gave his evidence that was based on what he knew 
about my innocence, but `Ali said, "Allah has not put restrictions on you and there are many women 
other than her. Furthermore you may ask the slave girl who will tell you the truth." So the Prophet (ﷺ) 
asked Barira (my salve girl), "Have you seen anything that may arouse your suspicion?" She replied, 
"I have not seen anything more than that she is a little girl who sleeps, leaving the dough of her family 
(unguarded) that the domestic goats come and eat it." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) stood on the pulpit and said, 
"O Muslims! Who will help me against the man who has harmed me by slandering my wife? By 
Allah, I know nothing about my family except good." The narrator added: Then the Prophet (ﷺ) 
mentioned the innocence of `Aisha. (See Hadith No. 274, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7370 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed the people, and after praising and glorifying Allah, he said, "What do you 
suggest me regarding those people who are abusing my wife? I have never known anything bad about 
her." The sub-narrator, `Urwa, said: When `Aisha was told of the slander, she said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Will you allow me to go to my parents' home?" He allowed her and sent a slave along with 
her. An Ansari man said, "Subhanaka! It is not right for us to speak about this. Subhanaka! This is a 
great lie!"
Bukhari:7371 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu'adh to Yemen.
Bukhari:7372 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh to Yemen, he said to him, "You are going to a nation from the people 
of the Scripture, so let the first thing to which you will invite them, be the Tauhid of Allah. If they 
learn that, tell them that Allah has enjoined on them, five prayers to be offered in one day and one 
night. And if they pray, tell them that Allah has enjoined on them Zakat of their properties and it is to 
be taken from the rich among them and given to the poor. And if they agree to that, then take from 
them Zakat but avoid the best property of the people."
Bukhari:7373 Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Mu`adh! Do you know what Allah's Right upon His slaves is?" I said, "Allah 
and His Apostle know best." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To worship Him (Allah) Alone and to join none in 
worship with Him (Allah). Do you know what their right upon Him is?" I replied, "Allah and His 
Apostle know best." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Not to punish them (if they do so).
Bukhari:7374 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A man heard another man reciting (in the prayers): 'Say (O Muhammad): "He is Allah, the One." 
(112.1) And he recited it repeatedly. When it was morning, he went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him 
about that as if he considered that the recitation of that Sura by itself was not enough. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, it is equal to one-third of the Qur'an."
Bukhari:7375 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent (an army unit) under the command of a man who used to lead his companions in the 
prayers and would finish his recitation with (the Sura 112): 'Say (O Muhammad): "He is Allah, the 
One." ' (112.1) When they returned (from the battle), they mentioned that to the Prophet. He said (to 
them), "Ask him why he does so." They asked him and he said, "I do so because it mentions the 
qualities of the Beneficent and I love to recite it (in my prayer)." The Prophet; said (to them), "Tell 
him that Allah loves him."
Bukhari:7376 Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not be merciful to those who are not merciful to mankind."
Bukhari:7377 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when suddenly there came to him a messenger from one of his daughters 
who was asking him to come and see her son who was dying. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the messenger), 
"Go back and tell her that whatever Allah takes is His, and whatever He gives is His, and everything 
with Him has a limited fixed term (in this world). So order her to be patient and hope for Allah's 
reward." But she sent the messenger to the Prophet (ﷺ) again, swearing that he should come to her. So the 
Prophet got up, and so did Sa`d bin 'Ubada and Mu`adh bin Jabal (and went to her). When the child 
was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) his breath was disturbed in his chest as if it were in a water skin. On that 
the eyes of the Prophet (ﷺ) became flooded with tears, whereupon Sa`d said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
What is this?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is mercy which Allah has put in the heart of His slaves, and 
Allah bestows His mercy only on those of His slaves who are merciful (to others)."
Bukhari:7378 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None is more patient than Allah against the harmful and annoying words He hears 
(from the people): They ascribe children to Him, yet He bestows upon them health and provision .
Bukhari:7379 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The keys of the unseen are five and none knows them but Allah: (1) None knows 
(the sex) what is in the womb, but Allah: (2) None knows what will happen tomorrow, but Allah; (3) 
None knows when it will rain, but Allah; (4) None knows where he will die, but Allah (knows that); 
(5) and none knows when the Hour will be established, but Allah."
Bukhari:7380 Narrated Masruq:`Aisha said, "If anyone tells you that Muhammad has seen his Lord, he is a liar, for Allah says: 'No 
vision can grasp Him.' (6.103) And if anyone tells you that Muhammad has seen the Unseen, he is a 
liar, for Allah says: "None has the knowledge of the Unseen but Allah."
Bukhari:7381 Narrated `Abdullah:We used to pray behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to say: "As-Salamu 'Al-Allah. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah 
himself is As-Salam (Name of Allah), so you should say: 'at-Tahiyatu lil-lahi was-sala-watu wattaiyibatu, 
as-salamu `alaika aiyyuha-n-nabiyyu wa rahmatu-l-lahi wa barakatuhu, as-salamu `alaina 
wa `ala `ibadi-l-lahi as-salihin. Ashhadu an la ilaha il-lallah, wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 
`abduhu wa rasuluhu."'
Bukhari:7382 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection Allah will hold the whole earth and fold the heaven 
with His right hand and say, 'I am the King: where are the kings of the earth?" '
Bukhari:7383 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "I seek refuge (with YOU) by Your 'Izzat, None has the right to be 
worshipped but You Who does not die while the Jinns and the human beings die."
Bukhari:7384 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(The people will be thrown into Hell ( Fire) and it will keep on saying, 'Is there any 
more?' till the Lord of the worlds puts His Foot over it, whereupon its different sides will come close 
to each other, and it will say, 'Qad! Qad! (enough! enough!) By Your 'Izzat (Honor and Power) and 
YOUR KARAM (Generosity)!' Paradise will remain spacious enough to accommodate more people 
until Allah will create some more people and let them dwell in the superfluous space of Paradise. "
Bukhari:7385 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah at night, saying, "O Allah: All the 
     Praises are for You: You are the Lord of the Heavens and the Earth. 
     All the Praises are for You; You are the Maintainer of the Heaven and 
     the Earth and whatever is in them. All the Praises are for You; You 
     are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth. Your Word is the Truth, 
     and Your Promise is the Truth, and the Meeting with You is the Truth, 
     and Paradise is the Truth, and the (Hell) Fire is the Truth, and the 
     Hour is the Truth. O Allah! I surrender myself to You, and I believe 
     in You and I depend upon You, and I repent to You and with You (Your 
     evidences) I stand against my opponents, and to you I leave the 
     judgment (for those who refuse my message). O Allah! Forgive me my 
     sins that I did in the past or will do in the future, and also the 
     sins I did in secret or in public. You are my only God (Whom I 
     worship) and there is no other God for me (i.e. I worship none but 
     You)."Narrated Sufyan:(regarding the above narration) that the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "You are the 
     Truth, and Your Word is the Truth."
Bukhari:7386 Narrated Abu Musa:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and whenever we ascended a high place, we used to say, 
"Allahu Akbar." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't trouble yourselves too much! You are not calling a deaf or 
an absent person, but you are calling One Who Hears, Sees, and is very near." Then he came to me 
while I was saying in my heart, "La hawla wala quwwatta illa billah (There is neither might nor power 
but with Allah)." He said, to me, "O `Abdullah bin Qais! Say, 'La hawla wala quwwata illa billah 
(There is neither might nor power but with Allah), for it is one of the treasures of Paradise." Or said, 
"Shall I tell you of it?"
Bukhari:7387 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Teach me an invocation with which I 
may invoke Allah in my prayers." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say: O Allah! I have wronged my soul very 
much (oppressed myself), and none forgives the sins but You; so please bestow Your Forgiveness 
upon me. No doubt, You are the Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
Bukhari:7388 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Teach me an invocation with which I 
may invoke Allah in my prayers." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say: O Allah! I have wronged my soul very 
much (oppressed myself), and none forgives the sins but You; so please bestow Your Forgiveness 
upon me. No doubt, You are the Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
Bukhari:7389 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel called me and said, 'Allah has heard the statement of your people and what 
they replied to you.'"
Bukhari:7390 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:As-Salami: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to teach his companions to perform the prayer of Istikhara for each 
and every matter just as he used to teach them the Suras from the Qur'an He used to say, "If anyone of 
you intends to do some thing, he should offer a two rak`at prayer other than the compulsory prayers, 
and after finishing it, he should say: O Allah! I consult You, for You have all knowledge, and appeal 
to You to support me with Your Power and ask for Your Bounty, for You are able to do things while I 
am not, and You know while I do not; and You are the Knower of the Unseen. O Allah If You know It 
this matter (name your matter) is good for me both at present and in the future, (or in my religion), in 
my this life and in the Hereafter, then fulfill it for me and make it easy for me, and then bestow Your 
Blessings on me in that matter. O Allah! If You know that this matter is not good for me in my 
religion, in my this life and in my coming Hereafter (or at present or in the future), then divert me 
from it and choose for me what is good wherever it may be, and make me be pleased with it." (See 
Hadith No. 391, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7391 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) frequently used to swear, "No, by the One Who turns the hearts."
Bukhari:7392 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has ninety-nine Names, one-hundred less one; and he who memorized 
them all by heart will enter Paradise." To count something means to know it by heart.
Bukhari:7393 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you goes to bed, he should dust it off thrice with the edge of his 
garment, and say: Bismika Rabbi Wada`tu janbi, wa bika arfa'hu. In amsakta nafsi faghfir laha, wa in 
arsaltaha fahfazha bima tahfaz bihi 'ibadaka-s-salihin."
Bukhari:7394 Narrated Hudhaifah:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to say, "Allahumma bismika ahya wa amut." And when he woke up in the mornings he used to say, "Al-hamdu li l-lahi al-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana wa ilaihi-nnushur."
Bukhari:7395 Narrated Abu Dharr:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed at night, he used to say: "Bismika namutu wa nahya." And when he got 
up in the morning, he used to say, "Al hamdu li l-lahi al-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana, wa ilaihi-nnushur."
Bukhari:7396 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you, when intending to have a sexual relation (sleep) with his wife, 
says: Bismillah, Allahumma jannibna ashShaitan, wa Jannib ash-Shaitana ma razaqtana, Satan would 
never harm that child, should it be ordained that they will have one. (Because of that sleep).
Bukhari:7397 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:I asked the Prophet, "I send off (for a game) my trained hunting dogs; (what is your verdict 
concerning the game they hunt?" He said, "If you send off your trained hunting dogs and mention the 
Name of Allah, then, if they catch some game, eat (thereof). And if you hit the game with a mi'rad (a 
hunting tool) and it wounds it, you can eat (it).
Bukhari:7398 Narrated `Aisha:The people said to the Prophet (ﷺ) , "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Here are people who have recently embraced 
Islam and they bring meat, and we do not know whether they had mentioned Allah's Name while 
slaughtering the animals or not." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You should mention Allah's Name and eat."
Bukhari:7399 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered two rams as sacrifice and mentioned Allah's Name and said, "Allahu-Akbar" 
while slaughtering).
Bukhari:7400 Narrated Jundab:That he witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) on the Day of Nahr. The Prophet (ﷺ) offered prayer and then delivered a 
sermon saying, "Whoever slaughtered his sacrifice before offering prayer, should slaughter another 
animal in place of the first; and whoever has not yet slaughtered any, should slaughter a sacrifice and 
mention Allah's Name while doing so."
Bukhari:7401 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers; and whoever wants to swear should swear by Allah."
Bukhari:7402 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent ten persons to bring the enemy's secrets and Khubaib Al-Ansari was one of them. 
'Ubaidullah bin 'Iyad told me that the daughter of Al-Harith told him that when they gathered (to kill 
Khubaib Al Ansari) he asked for a razor to clean his pubic region, and when they had taken him 
outside the sanctuary of Mecca in order to kill him, he said in verse, "I don't care if I am killed as a 
Muslim, on any side (of my body) I may be killed in Allah's Cause; for that is for the sake of Allah's 
very Self; and if He will, He will bestow His Blessings upon the torn pieces of my body." Then Ibn 
Al-Harith killed him, and the Prophet (ﷺ) informed his companions of the death of those (ten men) on the 
very day they were killed.
Bukhari:7403 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is none having a greater sense of Ghira than Allah, and for that reason He 
has forbidden shameful deeds and sins (illegal sexual intercourse etc.) And there is none who likes to 
be praised more than Allah does." (See Hadith No. 147, Vol. 7)
Bukhari:7404 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah created the Creation, He wrote in His Book--and He wrote (that) about 
Himself, and it is placed with Him on the Throne--'Verily My Mercy overcomes My Anger.'"
Bukhari:7405 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah says: 'I am just as My slave thinks I am, (i.e. I am able to do for him what he 
thinks I can do for him) and I am with him if He remembers Me. If he remembers Me in himself, I 
too, remember him in Myself; and if he remembers Me in a group of people, I remember him in a 
group that is better than they; and if he comes one span nearer to Me, I go one cubit nearer to him; and 
if he comes one cubit nearer to Me, I go a distance of two outstretched arms nearer to him; and if he 
comes to Me walking, I go to him running.' "
Bukhari:7406 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:when this Verse:--'Say (O Muhammad!): He has Power to send torments on you from above,' (6.65) 
was revealed; The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I take refuge with Your Face." Allah revealed:-- '..or from 
underneath your feet.' (6.65) The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "I seek refuge with Your Face!" Then Allah 
revealed:--'...or confuse you in party-strife.' (6.65) Oh that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is easier."
Bukhari:7407 Narrated `Abdullah:Ad-Dajjal was mentioned in the presence of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah is not hidden from 
you; He is not one-eyed," and pointed with his hand towards his eye, adding, "While Al-Masih Ad- 
Dajjal is blind in the right eye and his eye looks like a protruding grape."
Bukhari:7408 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah did not send any prophet but that he warned his nation of the one-eyed liar 
(Ad-Dajjal). He is one-eyed while your Lord is not one-eyed, The word 'Kafir' (unbeliever) is written 
between his two eyes."
Bukhari:7409 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:That during the battle with Bani Al-Mustaliq they (Muslims) captured some females and intended to 
have sexual relation with them without impregnating them. So they asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about coitus 
interrupt us. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is better that you should not do it, for Allah has written whom He is 
going to create till the Day of Resurrection." Qaza'a said, "I heard Abu Sa`id saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, 'No soul is ordained to be created but Allah will create it."
Bukhari:7410 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will gather the believers on the Day of Resurrection in the same way (as they 
are gathered in this life), and they will say, 'Let us ask someone to intercede for us with our Lord that 
He may relieve us from this place of ours.' Then they will go to Adam and say, 'O Adam! Don't you 
see the people (people's condition)? Allah created you with His Own Hands and ordered His angels to 
prostrate before you, and taught you the names of all the things. Please intercede for us with our Lord 
so that He may relieve us from this place of ours.' Adam will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking' 
and mention to them the mistakes he had committed, and add, "But you d better go to Noah as he was 
the first Apostle sent by Allah to the people of the Earth.' They will go to Noah who will reply, 'I am 
not fit for this undertaking,' and mention the mistake which he made, and add, 'But you'd better go to 
Abraham, Khalil Ar-Rahman.' 
They will go to Abraham who will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and mention to them the 
mistakes he made, and add, 'But you'd better go to Moses, a slave whom Allah gave the Torah and to 
whom He spoke directly' They will go to Moses who will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and 
mention to them the mistakes he made, and add, 'You'd better go to Jesus, Allah's slave and His 
Apostle and His Word (Be: And it was) and a soul created by Him.' They will go to Jesus who will 
say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking, but you'd better go to Muhammad whose sins of the past and the 
future had been forgiven (by Allah).' So they will come to me and I will ask the permission of my 
Lord, and I will be permitted (to present myself) before Him. When I see my Lord, I will fall down in 
(prostration) before Him and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wishes, and then it will 
be said to me, 'O Muhammad! Raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you 
will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.' I will then raise 
my head and praise my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me, and then I will intercede. 
Allah will allow me to intercede (for a certain kind of people) and will fix a limit whom I will admit 
into Paradise. 
I will come back again, and when I see my Lord (again), I will fall down in prostration before Him, 
and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wishes, and then He will say, 'O Muhammad! 
Raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); 
and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.' I will then praise my Lord with certain praises 
which He has taught me, and then I will intercede. Allah will allow me to intercede (for a certain kind 
of people) and will fix a limit to whom I will admit into Paradise, I will return again, and when I see 
my Lord, I will fall down (in prostration) and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wishes, 
and then He will say, 'O Muhammad! Raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to, and ask, 
for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.' I will 
then praise my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me, and then I will intercede. Allah will 
allow me to intercede (for a certain kind of people) and will fix a limit to whom I will admit into 
Paradise. I will come back and say, 'O my Lord! None remains in Hell (Fire) but those whom Qur'an 
has imprisoned therein and for whom eternity in Hell (Fire) has become inevitable.' " 
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "There will come out of Hell (Fire) everyone who says: 'La ilaha illal-lah,' and has 
in his heart good equal to the weight of a barley grain. Then there will come out of Hell (Fire) 
everyone who says: ' La ilaha illal-lah,' and has in his heart good equal to the weight of a wheat grain. 
Then there will come out of Hell (Fire) everyone who says: 'La ilaha illal-lah,' and has in his heart 
good equal to the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant).
Bukhari:7411 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah's Hand is full, and (its fullness) is not affected by the continuous 
spending, day and night." He also said, "Do you see what He has spent since He created the Heavens 
and the Earth? Yet all that has not decreased what is in His Hand." He also said, "His Throne is over 
the water and in His other Hand is the balance (of Justice) and He raises and lowers (whomever He 
will)." (See Hadith No. 206, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7412 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will grasp the whole Earth by His Hand, and 
all the Heavens in His right, and then He will say, 'I am the King." Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said," Allah will grasp the Earth...' "
Bukhari:7413 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will grasp the whole Earth by His Hand, and 
all the Heavens in His right, and then He will say, 'I am the King." Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said," Allah will grasp the Earth...' "
Bukhari:7414 Narrated `Abdullah:A Jew came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! Allah will hold the heavens on a Finger, and the 
mountains on a Finger, and the trees on a Finger, and all the creation on a Finger, and then He will 
say, 'I am the King.' " On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and then 
recited:-- 
'No just estimate have they made of Allah such as due to him....(39.67) `Abdullah added: Allah's 
Apostle smiled (at the Jew's statement) expressing his wonder and belief in what was said.
Bukhari:7415 Narrated `Abdullah:A man from the people of the scripture came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Abal-Qasim! Allah will hold 
the Heavens upon a Finger, and the Earth on a Finger and the land on a Finger, and all the creation on 
a Finger, and will say, 'I am the King! I am the King!' " I saw the Prophet (after hearing that), smiling 
till his premolar teeth became visible, and he then recited: -- 'No just estimate have they made of Allah 
such as due to him... (39.67)
Bukhari:7416 Narrated Al-Mughira:Sa`d bin 'Ubada said, "If I saw a man with my wife, I would strike him (behead him) with the blade of 
my sword." This news reached Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who then said, "You people are astonished at Sa`d's 
Ghira. By Allah, I have more Ghira than he, and Allah has more Ghira than I, and because of Allah's 
Ghira, He has made unlawful Shameful deeds and sins (illegal sexual intercourse etc.) done in open 
and in secret. And there is none who likes that the people should repent to Him and beg His pardon 
than Allah, and for this reason He sent the warners and the givers of good news. And there is none 
who likes to be praised more than Allah does, and for this reason, Allah promised to grant Paradise (to 
the doers of good)." `Abdul Malik said, "No person has more Ghira than Allah."
Bukhari:7417 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to a man, "Have you got anything of the Qur'an?" The man said, "Yes, such-andsuch 
Sura, and such-and-such Sura," naming the Suras.
Bukhari:7418 Narrated `Imran bin Hussain:While I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) , some people from Bani Tamim came to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O 
Bani Tamim! Accept the good news!" They said, "You have given us the good news; now give us 
(something)." (After a while) some Yemenites entered, and he said to them, "O the people of Yemen! 
Accept the good news, as Bani Tamim have refused it. " They said, "We accept it, for we have come 
to you to learn the Religion. So we ask you what the beginning of this universe was." The Prophet (ﷺ) said 
"There was Allah and nothing else before Him and His Throne was over the water, and He then 
created the Heavens and the Earth and wrote everything in the Book." Then a man came to me and 
said, 'O `Imran! Follow your she-camel for it has run away!" So I set out seeking it, and behold, it was 
beyond the mirage! By Allah, I wished that it (my she-camel) had gone but that I had not left (the 
gathering). "
Bukhari:7419 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Right (Hand) of Allah Is full, and (Its fullness) is not affected by the 
continuous spending night and day. Do you see what He has spent since He created the Heavens and 
the Earth? Yet all that has not decreased what is in His Right Hand. His Throne is over the water and 
in His other Hand is the Bounty or the Power to bring about death, and He raises some people and 
brings others down." (See Hadith No. 508)
Bukhari:7420 Narrated Anas:Zaid bin Haritha came to the Prophet (ﷺ) complaining about his wife. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on saying (to 
him), "Be afraid of Allah and keep your wife." Aisha said, "If Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) were to conceal 
anything (of the Qur'an he would have concealed this Verse." Zainab used to boast before the wives of 
the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to say, "You were given in marriage by your families, while I was married (to 
the Prophet) by Allah from over seven Heavens." And Thabit recited, "The Verse:-- 'But (O 
Muhammad) you did hide in your heart that which Allah was about to make manifest, you did fear the 
people,' (33.37) was revealed in connection with Zainab and Zaid bin Haritha."
Bukhari:7421 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Verse of Al-Hijab (veiling of women) was revealed in connection with Zainab bint Jahsh. (On the 
day of her marriage with him) the Prophet (ﷺ) gave a wedding banquet with bread and meat; and she used 
to boast before other wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to say, "Allah married me (to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the 
Heavens."
Bukhari:7422 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah had finished His creation, He wrote over his Throne: 'My Mercy 
preceded My Anger.'
Bukhari:7423 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and His Apostle offers prayers perfectly and fasts (the 
month of) Ramadan then it is incumbent upon Allah to admit him into Paradise, whether he emigrates 
for Allah's cause or stays in the land where he was born." They (the companions of the Prophet) said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should we not inform the people of that?" He said, "There are one-hundred 
degrees in Paradise which Allah has prepared for those who carry on Jihad in His Cause. The distance 
between every two degrees is like the distance between the sky and the Earth, so if you ask Allah for 
anything, ask Him for the Firdaus, for it is the last part of Paradise and the highest part of Paradise, 
and at its top there is the Throne of Beneficent, and from it gush forth the rivers of Paradise."
Bukhari:7424 Narrated Abu Dharr:I entered the mosque while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting there. When the sun had set, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"O Abu Dharr! Do you know where this (sun) goes?" I said, "Allah and His Apostle know best." He 
said, "It goes and asks permission to prostrate, and it is allowed, and (one day) it, as if being ordered 
to return whence it came, then it will rise from the west." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited, "That: "And the 
sun runs on its fixed course (for a term decreed)," (36.38) as it is recited by `Abdullah.
Bukhari:7425 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:Abu Bakr sent for me, so I collected the Qur'an till I found the last part of Surat-at-Tauba with Abi 
Khuza`ima Al-Ansari and did not find it with anybody else. (The Verses are): -- 'Verily, there has 
come to you an Apostle (Muhammad) from amongst yourselves..(till the end of Surat Bara'a) (i.e., at- 
Tauba).' (9.128-129)Yunus also narrated as above.
Bukhari:7426 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say at the time of difficulty, 'La ilaha il-lallah Al-`Alimul-Halim. La-ilaha illallah 
Rabul- Arsh-al-Azim, La ilaha-il-lallah Rabus-Samawati Rab-ul-Ard; wa Rab-ul-Arsh Al- 
Karim.' (See Hadith No. 356 and 357, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7427 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will fall unconscious on the Day of Resurrection, then suddenly I will 
see Moses holding one of the pillars of the Throne." Abu Huraira said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be the 
first person to be resurrected and will see Moses holding the Throne."
Bukhari:7428 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will fall unconscious on the Day of Resurrection, then suddenly I will 
see Moses holding one of the pillars of the Throne." Abu Huraira said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be the 
first person to be resurrected and will see Moses holding the Throne."
Bukhari:7429 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(A group of) angels stay with you at night and 
     (another group of) angels by daytime, and both groups gather at the 
     time of the 'Asr and Fajr prayers. Then those angels who have stayed 
     with you overnight, ascend (to Heaven) and Allah asks them (about you)
     ---- and He knows everything about you. "In what state did you leave 
     My slaves?' The angels reply, 'When we left them, they were praying, 
     and when we reached them they were praying.' "
Bukhari:7430 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody gives in charity something equal to
     a date from his honestly earned money ----for nothing ascends to Allah
     except good---- then Allah will take it in His Right (Hand) and bring 
     it up for its owner as anyone of you brings up a baby horse, till it 
     becomes like a mountain." Abu Huraira said: The Prophet. said, 
     "Nothing ascends to Allah except good."
Bukhari:7431 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at the time of difficulty, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, 
the Majestic, the Most Forbearing. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the 
Tremendous Throne. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Heavens and the 
Lord of the Honourable Throne. (See Hadith No. 357, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7432 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:When `Ali was in Yemen, he sent some gold in its ore to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) distributed it 
among Al-Aqra' bin H`Abis Al-Hanzali who belonged to Bani Mujashi, 'Uyaina bin Badr Al-Fazari, 
'Alqama bin 'Ulatha Al-`Amiri, who belonged to the Bani Kilab tribe and Zaid AI-Khail at-Ta'i who 
belonged to Bani Nabhan. So the Quraish and the Ansar became angry and said, "He gives to the 
chiefs of Najd and leaves us!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I just wanted to attract and unite their hearts (make 
them firm in Islam)." Then there came a man with sunken eyes, bulging forehead, thick beard, fat 
raised cheeks, and clean-shaven head, and said, "O Muhammad! Be afraid of Allah! " The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Who would obey Allah if I disobeyed Him? (Allah). He trusts me over the people of the earth, 
but you do not trust me?" A man from the people (present then), who, I think, was Khalid bin Al- 
Walid, asked for permission to kill him, but the Prophet (ﷺ) prevented him. When the man went away, the 
Prophet said, "Out of the offspring of this man, there will be people who will recite the Qur'an but it 
will not go beyond their throats, and they will go out of Islam as an arrow goes out through the game, 
and they will kill the Muslims and leave the idolators. Should I live till they appear, I would kill them 
as the Killing of the nation of 'Ad."
Bukhari:7433 Narrated Abu Dharr:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the Verse:--'And the sun runs on its fixed course for a term decreed for 
it.' (36.28) He said, "Its fixed course is underneath Allah's Throne."
Bukhari:7434 Narrated Jarir:We were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he looked at the moon on the night of the full-moon and said, 
"You people will see your Lord as you see this full moon, and you will have no trouble in seeing Him, 
so if you can avoid missing (through sleep or business, etc.) a prayer before sunrise (Fajr) and a prayer 
before sunset (`Asr) you must do so." (See Hadith No. 529, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7435 Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will definitely see your Lord with your own eyes."
Bukhari:7436 Narrated Jarir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out to us on the night of the full moon and said, "You will see your Lord on the 
Day of Resurrection as you see this (full moon) and you will have no difficulty in seeing Him."
Bukhari:7437 Narrated 'Ata' bin Yazid Al-Laithi:On the authority of Abu Huraira: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
     Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
     "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the moon on a full moon night?" 
     They said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "Do you have any 
     difficulty in seeing the sun when there are no clouds?" They said, 
     "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "So you will see Him, like that. 
     Allah will gather all the people on the Day of Resurrection, and say, 
     'Whoever worshipped something (in the world) should follow (that 
     thing),' so, whoever worshipped the sun will follow the sun, and 
     whoever worshiped the moon will follow the moon, and whoever used to 
     worship certain (other false) deities, he will follow those deities. 
     And there will remain only this nation with its good people (or its 
     hypocrites). (The sub-narrator, Ibrahim is in doubt.) Allah will come 
     to them and say, 'I am your Lord.' They will (deny Him and) say, 'We 
     will stay here till our Lord comes, for when our Lord comes, we will 
     recognize Him.' So Allah will come to them in His appearance which 
     they know, and will say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say, 'You are our
     Lord,' so they will follow Him.Then a bridge will be laid across Hell (Fire)' I and my followers will
     be the first ones to go across it and none will speak on that Day 
     except the Apostles. And the invocation of the Apostles on that Day 
     will be, 'O Allah, save! Save!' In Hell (or over The Bridge) there 
     will be hooks like the thorns of As-Sa'dan (thorny plant). Have you 
     seen As-Sa'dan? " They replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "So
     those hooks look like the thorns of As-Sa'dan, but none knows how big 
     they are except Allah. Those hooks will snap the people away according
     to their deeds. Some of the people will stay in Hell (be destroyed) 
     because of their (evil) deeds, and some will be cut or torn by the 
     hooks (and fall into Hell) and some will be punished and then 
     relieved. When Allah has finished His Judgments among the people, He 
     will take whomever He will out of Hell through His Mercy. He will then
     order the angels to take out of the Fire all those who used to worship
     none but Allah from among those whom Allah wanted to be merciful to 
     and those who testified (in the world) that none has the right to be 
     worshipped but Allah. The angels will recognize them in the Fire by 
     the marks of prostration (on their foreheads), for the Fire will eat 
     up all the human body except the mark caused by prostration as Allah 
     has forbidden the Fire to eat the mark of prostration. They will come 
     out of the (Hell) Fire, completely burnt and then the water of life 
     will be poured over them and they will grow under it as does a seed 
     that comes in the mud of the torrent.Then Allah will finish the judgments among the people, and there will 
     remain one man facing the (Hell) Fire and he will be the last person 
     among the people of Hell to enter Paradise. He will say, 'O my Lord! 
     Please turn my face away from the fire because its air has hurt me and
     its severe heat has burnt me.' So he will invoke Allah in the way 
     Allah will wish him to invoke, and then Allah will say to him, 'If I 
     grant you that, will you then ask for anything else?' He will reply, 
     'No, by Your Power, (Honor) I will not ask You for anything else.' He 
     will give his Lord whatever promises and covenants Allah will demand.So Allah will turn his face away from Hell (Fire). When he will face 
     Paradise and will see it, he will remain quiet for as long as Allah 
     will wish him to remain quiet, then he will say, 'O my Lord! Bring me 
     near to the gate of Paradise.' Allah will say to him, 'Didn't you give
     your promises and covenants that you would never ask for anything more
     than what you had been given? Woe on you, O Adam's son! How 
     treacherous you are!' He will say, 'O my lord,' and will keep on 
     invoking Allah till He says to him, 'If I give what you are asking, 
     will you then ask for anything else?' He will reply, 'No, by Your 
     (Honor) Power, I will not ask for anything else.'Then he will give covenants and promises to Allah and then Allah will 
     bring him near to the gate of Paradise. When he stands at the gate of 
     Paradise, Paradise will be opened and spread before him, and he will 
     see its splendor and pleasures whereupon he will remain quiet as long 
     as Allah will wish him to remain quiet, and then he will say, O my 
     Lord! Admit me into Paradise.' Allah will say, 'Didn't you give your 
     covenants and promises that you would not ask for anything more than 
     what you had been given?' Allah will say, 'Woe on you, O Adam's son! 
     How treacherous you are! 'The man will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most miserable of 
     Your creation,' and he will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will 
     laugh because of his sayings, and when Allah will laugh because of 
     him, He will say to him, 'Enter Paradise,' and when he will enter it, 
     Allah will say to him, 'Wish for anything.' So he will ask his Lord, 
     and he will wish for a great number of things, for Allah Himself will 
     remind him to wish for certain things by saying, '(Wish for) 
     so-and-so.' When there is nothing more to wish for, Allah will say, 
     'This is for you, and its equal (is for you) as well."'Ata' bin Yazid added: Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri who was present with Abu 
     Huraira, did not deny whatever the latter said, but when Abu Huraira 
     said that Allah had said, "That is for you and its equal as well," Abu
     Sa'id Al-Khudri said, "And ten times as much, O Abu Huraira!" Abu 
     Huraira said, "I do not remember, except his saying, 'That is for you 
     and its equal as well.'" Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri then said, "I testify 
     that I remember the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'That is for you, and ten times as
     much.' ' Abu Huraira then added, "That man will be the last person of 
     the people of Paradise to enter Paradise."
Bukhari:7438 Narrated 'Ata' bin Yazid Al-Laithi:On the authority of Abu Huraira: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
     Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
     "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the moon on a full moon night?" 
     They said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "Do you have any 
     difficulty in seeing the sun when there are no clouds?" They said, 
     "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "So you will see Him, like that. 
     Allah will gather all the people on the Day of Resurrection, and say, 
     'Whoever worshipped something (in the world) should follow (that 
     thing),' so, whoever worshipped the sun will follow the sun, and 
     whoever worshiped the moon will follow the moon, and whoever used to 
     worship certain (other false) deities, he will follow those deities. 
     And there will remain only this nation with its good people (or its 
     hypocrites). (The sub-narrator, Ibrahim is in doubt.) Allah will come 
     to them and say, 'I am your Lord.' They will (deny Him and) say, 'We 
     will stay here till our Lord comes, for when our Lord comes, we will 
     recognize Him.' So Allah will come to them in His appearance which 
     they know, and will say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say, 'You are our
     Lord,' so they will follow Him.Then a bridge will be laid across Hell (Fire)' I and my followers will
     be the first ones to go across it and none will speak on that Day 
     except the Apostles. And the invocation of the Apostles on that Day 
     will be, 'O Allah, save! Save!' In Hell (or over The Bridge) there 
     will be hooks like the thorns of As-Sa'dan (thorny plant). Have you 
     seen As-Sa'dan? " They replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "So
     those hooks look like the thorns of As-Sa'dan, but none knows how big 
     they are except Allah. Those hooks will snap the people away according
     to their deeds. Some of the people will stay in Hell (be destroyed) 
     because of their (evil) deeds, and some will be cut or torn by the 
     hooks (and fall into Hell) and some will be punished and then 
     relieved. When Allah has finished His Judgments among the people, He 
     will take whomever He will out of Hell through His Mercy. He will then
     order the angels to take out of the Fire all those who used to worship
     none but Allah from among those whom Allah wanted to be merciful to 
     and those who testified (in the world) that none has the right to be 
     worshipped but Allah. The angels will recognize them in the Fire by 
     the marks of prostration (on their foreheads), for the Fire will eat 
     up all the human body except the mark caused by prostration as Allah 
     has forbidden the Fire to eat the mark of prostration. They will come 
     out of the (Hell) Fire, completely burnt and then the water of life 
     will be poured over them and they will grow under it as does a seed 
     that comes in the mud of the torrent.Then Allah will finish the judgments among the people, and there will 
     remain one man facing the (Hell) Fire and he will be the last person 
     among the people of Hell to enter Paradise. He will say, 'O my Lord! 
     Please turn my face away from the fire because its air has hurt me and
     its severe heat has burnt me.' So he will invoke Allah in the way 
     Allah will wish him to invoke, and then Allah will say to him, 'If I 
     grant you that, will you then ask for anything else?' He will reply, 
     'No, by Your Power, (Honor) I will not ask You for anything else.' He 
     will give his Lord whatever promises and covenants Allah will demand.So Allah will turn his face away from Hell (Fire). When he will face 
     Paradise and will see it, he will remain quiet for as long as Allah 
     will wish him to remain quiet, then he will say, 'O my Lord! Bring me 
     near to the gate of Paradise.' Allah will say to him, 'Didn't you give
     your promises and covenants that you would never ask for anything more
     than what you had been given? Woe on you, O Adam's son! How 
     treacherous you are!' He will say, 'O my lord,' and will keep on 
     invoking Allah till He says to him, 'If I give what you are asking, 
     will you then ask for anything else?' He will reply, 'No, by Your 
     (Honor) Power, I will not ask for anything else.'Then he will give covenants and promises to Allah and then Allah will 
     bring him near to the gate of Paradise. When he stands at the gate of 
     Paradise, Paradise will be opened and spread before him, and he will 
     see its splendor and pleasures whereupon he will remain quiet as long 
     as Allah will wish him to remain quiet, and then he will say, O my 
     Lord! Admit me into Paradise.' Allah will say, 'Didn't you give your 
     covenants and promises that you would not ask for anything more than 
     what you had been given?' Allah will say, 'Woe on you, O Adam's son! 
     How treacherous you are! 'The man will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most miserable of 
     Your creation,' and he will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will 
     laugh because of his sayings, and when Allah will laugh because of 
     him, He will say to him, 'Enter Paradise,' and when he will enter it, 
     Allah will say to him, 'Wish for anything.' So he will ask his Lord, 
     and he will wish for a great number of things, for Allah Himself will 
     remind him to wish for certain things by saying, '(Wish for) 
     so-and-so.' When there is nothing more to wish for, Allah will say, 
     'This is for you, and its equal (is for you) as well."'Ata' bin Yazid added: Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri who was present with Abu 
     Huraira, did not deny whatever the latter said, but when Abu Huraira 
     said that Allah had said, "That is for you and its equal as well," Abu
     Sa'id Al-Khudri said, "And ten times as much, O Abu Huraira!" Abu 
     Huraira said, "I do not remember, except his saying, 'That is for you 
     and its equal as well.'" Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri then said, "I testify 
     that I remember the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'That is for you, and ten times as
     much.' ' Abu Huraira then added, "That man will be the last person of 
     the people of Paradise to enter Paradise."
Bukhari:7439 Narrated Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri:We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of 
     Resurrection?" He said, "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the sun 
     and the moon when the sky is clear?" We said, "No." He said, "So you 
     will have no difficulty in seeing your Lord on that Day as you have no
     difficulty in seeing the sun and the moon (in a clear sky)." The 
     Prophet then said, "Somebody will then announce, 'Let every nation 
     follow what they used to worship.' So the companions of the cross will
     go with their cross, and the idolators (will go) with their idols, and
     the companions of every god (false deities) (will go) with their god, 
     till there remain those who used to worship Allah, both the obedient 
     ones and the mischievous ones, and some of the people of the 
     Scripture. Then Hell will be presented to them as if it were a mirage.
     Then it will be said to the Jews, "What did you use to worship?' They 
     will reply, 'We used to worship Ezra, the son of Allah.' It will be 
     said to them, 'You are liars, for Allah has neither a wife nor a son. 
     What do you want (now)?' They will reply, 'We want You to provide us 
     with water.' Then it will be said to them 'Drink,' and they will fall 
     down in Hell (instead). Then it will be said to the Christians, 'What 
     did you use to worship?'They will reply, 'We used to worship Messiah, the son of Allah.' It 
     will be said, 'You are liars, for Allah has neither a wife nor a son. 
     What: do you want (now)?' They will say, 'We want You to provide us 
     with water.' It will be said to them, 'Drink,' and they will fall down
     in Hell (instead). When there remain only those who used to worship 
     Allah (Alone), both the obedient ones and the mischievous ones, it 
     will be said to them, 'What keeps you here when all the people have 
     gone?' They will say, 'We parted with them (in the world) when we were
     in greater need of them than we are today, we heard the call of one 
     proclaiming, 'Let every nation follow what they used to worship,' and 
     now we are waiting for our Lord.' Then the Almighty will come to them 
     in a shape other than the one which they saw the first time, and He 
     will say, 'I am your Lord,' and they will say, 'You are not our Lord.'
     And none will speak: to Him then but the Prophets, and then it will be
     said to them, 'Do you know any sign by which you can recognize Him?' 
     They will say. 'The Shin,' and so Allah will then uncover His Shin 
     whereupon every believer will prostrate before Him and there will 
     remain those who used to prostrate before Him just for showing off and
     for gaining good reputation. These people will try to prostrate but 
     their backs will be rigid like one piece of a wood (and they will not 
     be able to prostrate). Then the bridge will be laid across Hell." We, 
     the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is the 
     bridge?'He said, "It is a slippery (bridge) on which there are clamps and 
     (Hooks like) a thorny seed that is wide at one side and narrow at the 
     other and has thorns with bent ends. Such a thorny seed is found in 
     Najd and is called As-Sa'dan. Some of the believers will cross the 
     bridge as quickly as the wink of an eye, some others as quick as 
     lightning, a strong wind, fast horses or she-camels. So some will be 
     safe without any harm; some will be safe after receiving some 
     scratches, and some will fall down into Hell (Fire). The last person 
     will cross by being dragged (over the bridge)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You
     (Muslims) cannot be more pressing in claiming from me a right that has
     been clearly proved to be yours than the believers in interceding with
     Almighty for their (Muslim) brothers on that Day, when they see 
     themselves safe.They will say, 'O Allah! (Save) our brothers (for they) used to pray 
     with us, fast with us and also do good deeds with us.' Allah will say,
     'Go and take out (of Hell) anyone in whose heart you find faith equal 
     to the weight of one (gold) Dinar.' Allah will forbid the Fire to burn
     the faces of those sinners. They will go to them and find some of them
     in Hell (Fire) up to their feet, and some up to the middle of their 
     legs. So they will take out those whom they will recognize and then 
     they will return, and Allah will say (to them), 'Go and take out (of 
     Hell) anyone in whose heart you find faith equal to the weight of one 
     half Dinar.' They will take out whomever they will recognize and 
     return, and then Allah will say, 'Go and take out (of Hell) anyone in 
     whose heart you find faith equal to the weight of an atom (or a 
     smallest ant), and so they will take out all those whom they will 
     recognize." Abu Sa'id said: If you do not believe me then read the 
     Holy Verse:--'Surely! Allah wrongs not even of the weight of an atom (or a smallest
     ant) but if there is any good (done) He doubles it.' (4.40) The 
     Prophet added, "Then the prophets and Angels and the believers will 
     intercede, and (last of all) the Almighty (Allah) will say, 'Now 
     remains My Intercession. He will then hold a handful of the Fire from 
     which He will take out some people whose bodies have been burnt, and 
     they will be thrown into a river at the entrance of Paradise, called 
     the water of life.They will grow on its banks, as a seed carried by the torrent grows. 
     You have noticed how it grows beside a rock or beside a tree, and how 
     the side facing the sun is usually green while the side facing the 
     shade is white. Those people will come out (of the River of Life) like
     pearls, and they will have (golden) necklaces, and then they will 
     enter Paradise whereupon the people of Paradise will say, 'These are 
     the people emancipated by the Beneficent. He has admitted them into 
     Paradise without them having done any good deeds and without sending 
     forth any good (for themselves).' Then it will be said to them, 'For 
     you is what you have seen and its equivalent as well.'"
Bukhari:7440 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The believers will be kept (waiting) on the Day of 
     Resurrection so long that they will become worried and say, "Let us 
     ask somebody to intercede far us with our Lord so that He may relieve 
     us from our place.Then they will go to Adam and say, 'You are Adam, the father of the 
     people. Allah created you with His Own Hand and made you reside in His
     Paradise and ordered His angels to prostrate before you, and taught 
     you the names of all things will you intercede for us with your Lord 
     so that He may relieve us from this place of ours? Adam will say, 'I 
     am not fit for this undertaking.' He will mention his mistakes he had 
     committed, i.e., his eating off the tree though he had been forbidden 
     to do so. He will add, 'Go to Noah, the first prophet sent by Allah to
     the people of the Earth.' The people will go to Noah who will say, 'I 
     am not fit for this undertaking' He will mention his mistake which he 
     had done, i.e., his asking his Lord without knowledge.' He will say 
     (to them), 'Go to Abraham, Khalil Ar-Rahman.' They will go to Abraham 
     who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking. He would mention 
     three words by which he told a lie, and say (to them). 'Go to Moses, a
     slave whom Allah gave the Torah and spoke to, directly and brought 
     near Him, for conversation.'They will go to Moses who will say, 'I am not fit for this 
     undertaking. He will mention his mistake he made, i.e., killing a 
     person, and will say (to them), 'Go to Jesus, Allah's slave and His 
     Apostle, and a soul created by Him and His Word.' (Be: And it was.) 
     They will go to Jesus who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking
     but you'd better go to Muhammad the slave whose past and future sins 
     have been forgiven by Allah.' So they will come to me, and I will ask 
     my Lord's permission to enter His House and then I will be permitted. 
     When I see Him I will fall down in prostration before Him, and He will
     leave me (in prostration) as long as He will, and then He will say, 'O
     Muhammad, lift up your head and speak, for you will be listened to, 
     and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted, and ask (for 
     anything) for it will be granted:' Then I will raise my head and 
     glorify my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me. Allah 
     will put a limit for me (to intercede for a certain type of people) I 
     will take them out and make them enter Paradise." (Qatada said: I 
     heard Anas saying that), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will go out and take 
     them out of Hell (Fire) and let them enter Paradise, and then I will 
     return and ask my Lord for permission to enter His House and I will be
     permitted.When I will see Him I will fall down in prostration before Him and He 
     will leave me in prostration as long as He will let me (in that 
     state), and then He will say, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, 
     for you will be listened to, and intercede, for your intercession will
     be accepted, and ask, your request will be granted.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) 
     added, "So I will raise my head and glorify and praise Him as He has 
     taught me. Then I will intercede and He will put a limit for me (to 
     intercede for a certain type of people). I will take them out and let 
     them enter Paradise." (Qatada added: I heard Anas saying that) the 
     Prophet said, 'I will go out and take them out of Hell (Fire) and let 
     them enter Paradise, and I will return for the third time and will ask
     my Lord for permission to enter His house, and I will be allowed to 
     enter.When I see Him, I will fall down in prostration before Him, and will 
     remain in prostration as long as He will, and then He will say, 'Raise
     your head, O Muhammad, and speak, for you will be listened to, and 
     intercede, for your intercession will be accepted, and ask, for your 
     request will be granted.' So I will raise my head and praise Allah as 
     He has taught me and then I will intercede and He will put a limit for
     me (to intercede for a certain type of people). I will take them out 
     and let them enter Paradise." (Qatada said: I heard Anas saying that) 
     the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "So I will go out and take them out of Hell (Fire) 
     and let them enter Paradise, till none will remain in the Fire except 
     those whom Quran will imprison (i.e., those who are destined for 
     eternal life in the fire)." The narrator then recited the Verse:-- "It
     may be that your Lord will raise you to a Station of Praise and 
     Glory.'    (17.79) The narrator added: This is the Station of Praise 
     and Glory which Allah has promised to your Prophet.
Bukhari:7441 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for the Ansar and gathered them in a tent and said to them, "Be patient till you 
meet Allah and His Apostle, and I will be on the lake-Tank (Al-Kauthar).
Bukhari:7442 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) offered his Tahajjud prayer, he would say, "O Allah, our Lord! All the praises 
are for You; You are the Keeper (Establisher or the One Who looks after) of the Heavens and the 
Earth. All the Praises are for You; You are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth and whatever is 
therein. You are the Truth, and Your saying is the Truth, and Your promise is the Truth, and the 
meeting with You is the Truth, and Paradise is the Truth, and the (Hell) Fire is the Truth. O Allah! I 
surrender myself to You, and believe in You, and I put my trust in You (solely depend upon). And to 
You I complain of my opponents and with Your Evidence I argue. So please forgive the sins which I 
have done in the past or I will do in the future, and also those (sins) which I did in secret or in public, 
and that which You know better than I. None has the right to be worshipped but You."
Bukhari:7443 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but his Lord will speak to him, and there will be 
no interpreter between them nor a screen to screen Him."
Bukhari:7444 Narrated `Abdullah bin Qais:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(There will be) two Paradises of silver and all the utensils and whatever is therein 
(will be of silver); and two Paradises of gold, and its utensils and whatever therein (will be of gold), 
and there will be nothing to prevent the people from seeing their Lord except the Cover of Majesty 
over His Face in the Paradise of Eden (eternal bliss).
Bukhari:7445 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes the property of a Muslim by taking a false oath, will meet Allah 
Who will be angry with him." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Verse:-- 'Verily those who purchase a 
small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and their oaths, they shall have no portion in the Hereafter, 
neither will Allah speak to them, nor look at them.' (3.77)
Bukhari:7446 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(There are) three (types of persons to whom) Allah will neither speak to them on 
the Day of Resurrections, nor look at them (They are):--(1) a man who takes a false oath that he has 
been offered for a commodity a price greater than what he has actually been offered; (2) and a man 
who takes a false oath after the `Asr (prayer) in order to grab the property of a Muslim through it; (3) 
and a man who forbids others to use the remaining superfluous water. To such a man Allah will say on 
the Day of Resurrection, 'Today I withhold My Blessings from you as you withheld the superfluous 
part of that (water) which your hands did not create.' "
Bukhari:7447 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Time has come back to its original state which it had when Allah created the 
Heavens and the Earth, the year is twelve months, of which four are sacred; (and out of these four) 
three are in succession, namely, Dhul-Qa'da, Dhul-Hijja and Muharram, and (the fourth one) Rajab 
Mudar which is between Jumad (Ath-Tham) and Sha'ban." The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked us, "Which month 
is this?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know (it) better." He kept quiet so long that we thought he 
might call it by another name. Then he said, "Isn't it Dhul-Hijja?" We said, "Yes." He asked "What 
town is this?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know (it) better.' Then he kept quiet so long that we 
thought he might call it by another name. He then said, "Isn't it the (forbidden) town (Mecca)?" We 
said, "Yes." He asked, "What is the day today?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know (it) better. 
Then he kept quiet so long that we thought that he might call it by another name. Then he said, "Isn't it 
the Day of An-Nahr (slaughtering of sacrifices)?" We said, "Yes." Then he said, "Your blood (lives), 
your properties," (the sub narrator Muhammad, said: I think he also said): "..and your honor) are as 
sacred to one another like the sanctity of this Day of yours, in this town of yours, in this month of 
yours. 
You shall meet your Lord and He will ask you about your deeds. Beware! Don't go astray after me by 
striking the necks of one another. Lo! It is incumbent upon those who are present to inform it to those 
who are absent for perhaps the informed one might comprehend it (understand it) better than some of 
the present audience." Whenever the sub-narrator Muhammad mentioned that statement, he would 
say, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said the truth.") And then the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's 
Message to you! No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message to you?"
Bukhari:7448 Narrated Usama:A son of one of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) was dying, so she sent a person to call the Prophet. He 
sent (her a message), "What ever Allah takes is for Him, and whatever He gives is for Him, and 
everything has a limited fixed term (in this world) so she should be patient and hope for Allah's 
reward." She then sent for him again, swearing that he should come. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up, and so did 
Mu`adh bin Jabal, Ubai bin Ka`b and 'Ubada bin As-Samit. When he entered (the house), they gave 
the child to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while its breath was disturbed in his chest. (The sub-narrator said: I think 
he said, "...as if it was a water skin.") Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started weeping whereupon Sa`d bin 'Ubada 
said, "Do you weep?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah is merciful only to those of His slaves who are 
merciful (to others).
Bukhari:7449 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise and Hell (Fire) quarrelled in the presence of their Lord. Paradise said, 'O 
Lord! What is wrong with me that only the poor and humble people enter me ?' Hell (Fire) said, I have 
been favored with the arrogant people.' So Allah said to Paradise, 'You are My Mercy,' and said to 
Hell, 'You are My Punishment which I inflict upon whom I wish, and I shall fill both of you.'" The 
Prophet added, "As for Paradise, (it will be filled with good people) because Allah does not wrong any 
of His created things, and He creates for Hell (Fire) whomever He will, and they will be thrown into 
it, and it will say thrice, 'Is there any more, till Allah (will put) His Foot over it and it will become full 
and its sides will come close to each other and it will say, 'Qat! Qat! Qat! (Enough! Enough! Enough!) 
.
Bukhari:7450 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will be scorched by Hell (Fire) as a punishment for sins they 
have committed, and then Allah will admit them into Paradise by the grant of His Mercy. These 
people will be called, 'Al-Jahannamiyyin' (the people of Hell).
Bukhari:7451 Narrated `Abdullah:A Jewish Rabbi came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! Allah will put the Heavens on one 
finger and the earth on one finger, and the trees and the rivers on one finger, and the rest of the 
creation on one finger, and then will say, pointing out with His Hand, 'I am the King.' "On that Allah's 
Apostle smiled and said, "No just estimate have they made of Allah such as due to Him. (39.67)
Bukhari:7452 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I stayed overnight at the house of (my aunt ) Maimuna while the Prophet (ﷺ) was with her, to see 
how was the night prayer of Allah s Apostle Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) talked to his wife for a while and then 
slept. When it was the last third of the night (or part of it), the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and looked towards the 
sky and recited the Verse:-- 'Verily! In the creation of the Heavens and the Earth....there are indeed 
signs for the men of understanding.' (3.190) 
Then He got up and performed the ablution, brushed his teeth and offered eleven rak`at. Then Bilal 
pronounced the Adhan whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) offered a two-rak`at (Sunna) prayer and went out to 
lead the people in Fajr (morning compulsory congregational prayer.
Bukhari:7453 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Allah created the creations, He wrote with Him on His Throne: 'My 
Mercy has preceded My Anger."
Bukhari:7454 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the true and truly inspired, narrated to us, "The creation of everyone of you starts with 
the process of collecting the material for his body within forty days and forty nights in the womb of 
his mother. Then he becomes a clot of thick blood for a similar period (40 days) and then he becomes 
like a piece of flesh for a similar period. Then an angel is sent to him (by Allah) and the angel is 
allowed (ordered) to write four things; his livelihood, his (date of) death, his deeds, and whether he 
will be a wretched one or a blessed one (in the Hereafter) and then the soul is breathed into him. So 
one of you may do (good) deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise so much that there is nothing 
except a cubit between him and Paradise but then what has been written for him decides his behavior 
and he starts doing (evil) deeds characteristic of the people of Hell (Fire) and (ultimately) enters Hell 
(Fire); and one of you may do (evil) deeds characteristic of the people of Hell (Fire) so much so that 
there is nothing except a cubit between him and Hell (Fire), then what has been written for him 
decides his behavior and he starts doing (good) deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise and 
ultimately) enters Paradise." (See Hadith No. 430, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:7455 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Gabriel, what prevents you. from visiting us more often than you do?" Then this 
Verse was revealed:--'And we angels descend not but by Command of your Lord. To Him belongs 
what is before us and what is behind us..' (19.64) So this was the answer to Muhammad.
Bukhari:7456 Narrated `Abdullah:While I was walking with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in one of the fields of Medina and he was walking leaning 
on a stick, he passed a group of Jews. Some of them said to the others, "Ask him (the Prophet) about 
the spirit." Others said, "Do not ask him." But they asked him and he stood leaning on the stick and I 
was standing behind him and I thought that he was being divinely inspired. Then he said, "They ask 
you concerning the spirit say: The spirit, its knowledge is with My Lord. And of knowledge you (O 
men!) have been given only a little." ...(17.85) On that some of the Jews said to the others, "Didn't we 
tell you not to ask?"
Bukhari:7457 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah guarantees to the person who carries out Jihad for His Cause and nothing 
compelled him to go out but the Jihad in His Cause, and belief in His Words, that He will either admit 
him into Paradise or return him with his reward or the booty he has earned to his residence from 
where he went out." (See Hadith No. 555).
Bukhari:7458 Narrated Abu Musa:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "A man fights for pride and haughtiness another fights for 
bravery, and another fights for showing off; which of these (cases) is in Allah's Cause?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "The one who fights that Allah's Word (Islam) should be superior, fights in Allah's Cause." (See 
Hadith No. 65, Vol. 4)
Bukhari:7459 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Some people from my followers will continue to be victorious over others 
till Allah's Order (The Hour) is established." (See Hadith No. 414)
Bukhari:7460 Narrated Muawiya:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A group of my followers will keep on following Allah's Laws strictly and 
they will not be harmed by those who will disbelieve them or stand against them till Allah's Order 
(The Hour) will come while they will be in that state."
Bukhari:7461 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood before Musailama (the liar) who was sitting with his companions then, and said to 
him, "If you ask me for this piece (of palm-leaf stalk), even then I would not give it to you. You 
cannot avoid what Allah has ordained for you, and if you turn away from Islam, Allah will surely ruin 
you! "
Bukhari:7462 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:While I was walking in company with the Prophet (ﷺ) in one of the fields of Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) was 
reclining on a palm leave stalk which he carried with him. We passed by a group of Jews. Some of 
them said to the others, "Ask him about the spirit." The others said, "Do not ask him, lest he would 
say something that you hate." Some of them said, "We will ask him." So a man from among them 
stood up and said, 'O Abal-Qasim! What is the spirit?" The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet and I knew that he was 
being divinely inspired. Then he said: "They ask you concerning the Spirit, Say: The Spirit; its 
knowledge is with my Lord. And of knowledge you (mankind) have been given only a little." (17.85)
Bukhari:7463 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah guarantees (the person who carries out Jihad in His Cause and nothing 
compelled him to go out but Jihad in His Cause and the belief in His Word) that He will either admit 
him into Paradise (Martyrdom) or return him with reward or booty he has earned to his residence from 
where he went out."
Bukhari:7464 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you invoke Allah for something, he should be firm in his 
asking, and he should not say: 'If You wish, give me...' for none can compel Allah to do something 
against His Will."
Bukhari:7465 Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:That one night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited him and Fatima, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said to 
them, "Won 't you offer (night) prayer?.. `Ali added: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Our souls are in the 
Hand of Allah and when He Wishes to bring us to life, He does." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went away 
when I said so and he did not give any reply. Then I heard him on leaving while he was striking his 
thighs, saying, 'But man is, more quarrelsome than anything.' (18.54)
Bukhari:7466 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer is that of a fresh green plant the leaves of which 
move in whatever direction the wind forces them to move and when the wind becomes still, it stand 
straight. Such is the similitude of the believer: He is disturbed by calamities (but is like the fresh plant 
he regains his normal state soon). And the example of a disbeliever is that of a pine tree (which 
remains) hard and straight till Allah cuts it down when He will." (See Hadith No. 546 and 547, Vol. 
7).
Bukhari:7467 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was standing on the pulpit, saying, "The remaining period of your 
stay (on the earth) in comparison to the nations before you, is like the period between the `Asr prayer 
and sunset. The people of the Torah were given the Torah and they acted upon it till midday, and then 
they were worn out and were given for their labor, one Qirat each. Then the people of the Gospel were 
given the Gospel and they acted upon it till the time of the `Asr prayer, and then they were worn out 
and were given (for their labor), one Qirat each. Then you people were given the Qur'an and you acted 
upon it till sunset and so you were given two Qirats each (double the reward of the previous nations)." 
Then the people of the Torah said, 'O our Lord! These people have done a little labor (much less than 
we) but have taken a greater reward.' Allah said, 'Have I withheld anything from your reward?' They 
said, 'No.' Then Allah said, 'That is My Favor which I bestow on whom I wish.' "
Bukhari:7468 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:I, along with a group of people, gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He said, "I take your 
Pledge on the condition that you (1) will not join partners in worship with Allah, (2) will not steal, (3) 
will not commit illegal sexual intercourse, (4) will not kill your offspring, (5) will not slander, (6) and 
will not disobey me when I order you to do good. Whoever among you will abide by his pledge, his 
reward will be with Allah, and whoever commits any of those sins and receives the punishment in this 
world, that punishment will be an expiation for his sins and purification; but if Allah screens him, then 
it will be up to Allah to punish him if He will or excuse Him, if He will."
Bukhari:7469 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Prophet Solomon who had sixty wives, once said, "Tonight I will have sexual relation (sleep) 
with all my wives so that each of them will become pregnant and bring forth (a boy who will grow 
into) a cavalier and will fight in Allah's Cause." So he slept with his wives and none of them 
(conceived and) delivered (a child) except one who brought a half (body) boy (deformed). Allah's 
Prophet said, "If Solomon had said; 'If Allah Will,' then each of those women would have delivered a 
(would-be) cavalier to fight in Allah's Cause." (See Hadith No. 74 A, Vol. 4).
Bukhari:7470 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon a sick bedouin in whom he went to visit and said to him, "Don't worry, 
Tahur (i.e., your illness will be a means of cleansing of your sins), if Allah Will." The bedouin said, 
"Tahur! No, but it is a fever that is burning in the body of an old man and it will make him visit his 
grave." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then it is so."
Bukhari:7471 Narrated Abu Qatada:When the people slept till so late that they did not offer the (morning) prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah 
captured your souls (made you sleep) when He willed, and returned them (to your bodies) when He 
willed." So the people got up and went to answer the call of nature, performed ablution, till the sun 
had risen and it had become white, then the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered the prayer.
Bukhari:7472 Narrated Abu Huraira:"A man from the Muslims and a man from the Jews quarrelled, and the Muslim said, "By Him Who 
gave superiority to Muhammad over all the people!" The Jew said, "By Him Who gave superiority to 
Moses over all the people!' On that the Muslim lifted his hand and slapped the Jew. The Jew went to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him of all that had happened between him and the Muslim. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Do not give me superiority over Moses, for the people will fall unconscious on the Day of 
Resurrection, I will be the first to regain consciousness and behold, Moses will be standing there, 
holding the side of the Throne. I will not know whether he has been one of those who have fallen 
unconscious and then regained consciousness before me, or if he has been one of those exempted by 
Allah (from falling unconscious)." (See Hadith No. 524, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7473 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come to Medina and find the angels guarding it. If Allah will, 
neither Ad-Dajjal nor plague will be able to come near it."
Bukhari:7474 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "For every Prophet there is one invocation which is definitely fulfilled by Allah, 
and I wish, if Allah will, to keep my that (special) invocation as to be the intercession for my 
followers on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:7475 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself (in a dream) standing by a well. I drew from 
it as much water as Allah wished me to draw, and then Ibn Quhafa (Abu Bakr) took the bucket from 
me and drew one or two buckets, and there was weakness in his drawing----may Allah forgive him! 
Then `Umar took the bucket which turned into something like a big drum. I had never seen a powerful 
man among the people working as perfectly and vigorously as he did. (He drew so much water that) 
the people drank to their satisfaction and watered their camels that knelt down there. (See Hadith No. 
16, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:7476 Narrated Abu Musa:Whenever a beggar or a person in need of something came to the Prophet (ﷺ) , he used to say (to his 
companions), "Intercede (for him) and you will be rewarded for that, and Allah will fulfill what He 
will through His Apostle's tongue."
Bukhari:7477 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say: 'O Allah! Forgive me if You wish,' or 'Bestow Your 
Mercy on me if You wish,' or 'Provide me with means of subsistence if You wish,' but he should be 
firm in his request, for Allah does what He will and nobody can force Him (to do anything).
Bukhari:7478 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:That he differed with Al-Hurr bin Qais bin Hisn Al-Fazari about the companion of Moses, (i.e., 
whether he was Kha,dir or not). Ubai bin Ka`b Al-Ansari passed by them and Ibn `Abbas called him 
saying, 'My friend (Hur) and I have differed about Moses' Companion whom Moses asked the way to 
meet. Did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioning anything about him?" Ubai said, "Yes, I heard Allah's 
Apostle saying, "While Moses was sitting in the company of some Israelites a man came to him and 
asked, 'Do you know Someone who is more learned than you (Moses)?' Moses said, 'No.' So Allah 
sent the Divine inspiration to Moses:-- 
'Yes, Our Slave Khadir is more learned than you' Moses asked Allah how to meet him ( Khadir) So 
Allah made the fish as a sign for him and it was said to him, 'When you lose the fish, go back (to the 
place where you lose it) and you will meet him.' So Moses went on looking for the sign of the fish in 
the sea. The boy servant of Moses (who was accompanying him) said to him, 'Do you remember 
(what happened) when we betook ourselves to the rock? I did indeed forget to tell you (about) the fish. 
None but Satan made me forget to tell you about it' (18.63) Moses said: 
'That is what we have been seeking." Sa they went back retracing their footsteps. (18.64). So they both 
found Kadir (there) and then happened what Allah mentioned about them (in the Qur'an)!' (See 18.60- 
82)
Bukhari:7479 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah wills, tomorrow we will encamp in Khaif Bani Kinana, the place where 
the pagans took the oath of Kufr (disbelief) against the Prophet. He meant Al-Muhassab. (SeeHadith 1589)
Bukhari:7480 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) besieged the people of Ta'if, but he did not conquer it. He said, "Tomorrow, if Allah will, 
we will return home. On this the Muslims said, "Then we return without conquering it?" He said, 
'Then carry on fighting tomorrow." The next day many of them were injured. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If 
Allah will, we will return home tomorrow." It seemed that statement pleased them whereupon Allah's 
Apostle smiled.
Bukhari:7481 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah ordains something on the Heaven the angels beat with their wings in 
obedience to His Statement which sounds like that of a chain dragged over a rock. His Statement: 
"Until when the fear is banished from their hearts, the Angels say, 'What was it that your Lord said?' 
'They reply, '(He has said) the Truth. And He is the Most High, The Great. " (34.23)
Bukhari:7482 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah never listens to anything as He listens to the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Qur'an in a 
pleasant sweet sounding voice." A companion of Abu Huraira said, "He means, reciting the Qur'an 
aloud."
Bukhari:7483 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say (on the Day of Resurrection), 'O Adam!' Adam will reply, 'Labbaik 
wa Sa`daik! ' Then a loud Voice will be heard (Saying) 'Allah Commands you to take out the mission 
of the Hell Fire from your offspring.' "
Bukhari:7484 Narrated `Aisha:I never felt so jealous of any woman as I felt of Khadija, for Allah ordered him (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) to give 
Khadija the glad tidings of a palace in Paradise (for her).
Bukhari:7485 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah loves a person, He calls Gabriel, saying, 'Allah loves so and so, O 
Gabriel love him' So Gabriel would love him and then would make an announcement in the Heavens: 
'Allah has loved so and-so therefore you should love him also.' So all the dwellers of the Heavens 
would love him, and then he is granted the pleasure of the people on the earth." (See Hadith No. 66, 
Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7486 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are angels coming to you in succession at night, and others during the 
day, and they all gather at the time of `Asr and Fajr prayers. Then the angels who have stayed with 
you overnight ascend (to the heaven) and He (Allah) asks them though He perfectly knows their 
affairs. 'In what state have you left my slaves?' They say, 'When we left them, they were praying and 
when we came to them they were praying.' "
Bukhari:7487 Narrated Abu Dharr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Gabriel came to me and gave me the glad tidings that anyone who died without 
worshipping anything besides Allah, would enter Paradise. I asked (Gabriel), 'Even if he committed 
theft, and even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, '(Yes), even if he committed theft, 
and even if he Committed illegal sexual intercourse."
Bukhari:7488 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O so-and-so, whenever you go to your bed (for sleeping) say, 'O Allah! I have 
surrendered myself over to you and have turned my face towards You, and leave all my affairs to You 
and depend on You and put my trust in You expecting Your reward and fearing Your punishment. 
There is neither fleeing from You nor refuge but with You. I believe in the Book (Qur'an) which You 
have revealed and in Your Prophet (Muhammad) whom You have sent.' If you then die on that night, 
then you will die as a Muslim, and if you wake alive in the morning then you will receive the reward." 
(See Hadith No. 323, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7489 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the Day of (the battle of) the Clans, "O Allah! The Revealer of the Holy Book, 
The Quick Taker of Accounts! Defeat the clans and shake them."
Bukhari:7490 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(regarding the Verse):-- 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110) This Verse 
was revealed while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was hiding himself in Mecca, and when he raised his voice while 
reciting the Qur'an, the pagans would hear him and abuse the Qur'an and its Revealer and to the one 
who brought it. So Allah said:-- 
'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110) That is, 'Do not say your prayer so 
loudly that the pagans can hear you, nor say it in such a low tone that your companions do not hear 
you.' But seek a middle course between those (extremes), i.e., let your companions hear, but do not 
relate the Qur'an loudly, so that they may learn it from you.
Bukhari:7491 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: "The son of Adam hurts Me by abusing Time, for I am Time; in My 
Hands are all things and I cause the revolution of night and day.' " (See Hadith No. 351, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7492 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: The Fast is for Me and I will give the reward for it, as he (the one who 
observes the fast) leaves his sexual desire, food and drink for My Sake. Fasting is a screen (from Hell) 
and there are two pleasures for a fasting person, one at the time of breaking his fast, and the other at 
the time when he will meet his Lord. And the smell of the mouth of a fasting person is better in 
Allah's Sight than the smell of musk." (See Hadith No. 128, Vol. 3).
Bukhari:7493 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Once while Job (Aiyub) was taking a bath in a naked state. Suddenly a great 
number of gold locusts started falling upon him and he started collecting them in his clothes. His Lord 
called him, 'O Job! Didn't I make you rich enough to dispense with what you see now?' Job said, 'Yes, 
O Lord! But I cannot dispense with Your Blessings.'
Bukhari:7494 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Every night when it is the last third of the night, our Lord, the Superior, the 
Blessed, descends to the nearest heaven and says: Is there anyone to invoke Me that I may respond to 
his invocation? Is there anyone to ask Me so that I may grant him his request? Is there anyone asking 
My forgiveness so that I may forgive him?. " (See Hadith No. 246,Vol. 2)
Bukhari:7495 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but will be the foremost on the Day of 
Resurrection." The narrators of this Hadith said: Allah said (to man), 'Spend (in charity), for then I 
will compensate you (generously).' "
Bukhari:7496 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but will be the foremost on the Day of 
Resurrection." The narrators of this Hadith said: Allah said (to man), 'Spend (in charity), for then I 
will compensate you (generously).' "
Bukhari:7497 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said that Gabriel said, "Here is Khadija coming to you with a dish of food or a tumbler 
containing something to drink. Convey to her a greeting from her Lord (Allah) and give her the glad 
tidings that she will have a palace in Paradise built of Qasab wherein there will be neither any noise 
nor any fatigue (trouble)." (See Hadith No. 168, Vol. 5)
Bukhari:7498 Narrated Abu Huraira:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, "I have prepared for My righteous slaves (such excellent things) as no 
eye has ever seen, nor an ear has ever heard nor a human heart can ever think of.' "
Bukhari:7499 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the night (Tahajjud) prayer, he used to say, "O Allah! All the Praises 
are for You; You are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth. And all the Praises are for You; You are 
the Keeper of the Heavens and the Earth. All the Praises are for You; You are the Lord of the Heavens 
and the Earth and whatever is therein. You are the Truth, and Your Promise is the Truth, and Your 
Speech is the Truth, and meeting You is the Truth, and Paradise is the Truth and Hell (Fire) is the 
Truth and all the prophets are the Truth and the Hour is the Truth. O Allah! I surrender to You, and 
believe in You, and depend upon You, and repent to You, and in Your cause I fight and with Your 
orders I rule. So please forgive my past and future sins and those sins which I did in secret or in 
public. It is You Whom I worship, None has the right to be worshipped except You ." (See Hadith No. 
329,Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7500 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab, 'Alqama bin Waqqas and 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah regarding the narrating of 
the forged statement against `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, when the slanderers said what they said 
and Allah revealed her innocence. `Aisha said, "But by Allah, I did not think that Allah, (to confirm 
my innocence), would reveal Divine Inspiration which would be recited, for I consider myself too 
unimportant to be talked about by Allah through Divine Inspiration revealed for recitation, but I hoped 
that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) might have a dream in which Allah would reveal my innocence. So Allah 
revealed:-- 'Verily! Those who spread the slander are a gang among you...' (The ten Verses in Suratan- 
Nur) (24.11-20)
Bukhari:7501 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'If My slave intends to do a bad deed then (O Angels) do not write 
it unless he does it; if he does it, then write it as it is, but if he refrains from doing it for My Sake, then 
write it as a good deed (in his account). (On the other hand) if he intends to do a good deed, but does 
not do it, then write a good deed (in his account), and if he does it, then write it for him (in his 
account) as ten good deeds up to seven-hundred times.' "
Bukhari:7502 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah created the creation, and when He finished from His creation the Rahm 
(womb) got up, and Allah said (to it). "Stop! What do you want? It said; "At this place I seek refuge 
with You from all those who sever me (i.e. sever the ties of Kinship.)" Allah said: "Would you be 
pleased that I will keep good relation with the one who will keep good relation with you, and I will 
sever the relation with the one who will sever the relation with you. It said: 'Yes, 'O my Lord.' Allah 
said (to it), 'That is for you.'' And then Abu Huraira recited the Verse:-- "Would you then if you were 
given the authority, do mischief in the land, and sever your ties of kinship." (47.22)
Bukhari:7503 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid:It rained (because of the Prophet's invocation for rain) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'Some of My 
slaves have become disbelievers in Me, and some others, believers in Me.'"
Bukhari:7504 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'If My slaves loves the meeting with Me, I too love the meeting with 
him; and if he dislikes the meeting with Me, I too dislike the meeting with him.' " (See Hadith No. 
514, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7505 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'I am to my slave as he thinks of Me, (i.e. I am able to do for him 
what he thinks I can do for him). (See Hadith No. 502)
Bukhari:7506 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A man who never did any good deed, said that if he died, his family should burn 
him and throw half the ashes of his burnt body in the earth and the other half in the sea, for by Allah, 
if Allah should get hold of him, He would inflict such punishment on him as He would not inflict on 
anybody among the people. But Allah ordered the sea to collect what was in it (of his ashes) and 
similarly ordered the earth to collect what was in it (of his ashes). Then Allah said (to the recreated 
man ), 'Why did you do so?' The man replied, 'For being afraid of You, and You know it (very well).' 
So Allah forgave him."
Bukhari:7507 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody commits a sin and then says, 'O my Lord! I have sinned, 
please forgive me!' and his Lord says, 'My slave has known that he has a Lord who forgives sins and 
punishes for it, I therefore have forgiven my slave (his sins).' Then he remains without committing 
any sin for a while and then again commits another sin and says, 'O my Lord, I have committed 
another sin, please forgive me,' and Allah says, 'My slave has known that he has a Lord who forgives 
sins and punishes for it, I therefore have forgiven my slave (his sin). Then he remains without 
Committing any another sin for a while and then commits another sin (for the third time) and says, 'O 
my Lord, I have committed another sin, please forgive me,' and Allah says, 'My slave has known that 
he has a Lord Who forgives sins and punishes for it I therefore have forgiven My slave (his sin), he 
can do whatever he likes."
Bukhari:7508 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned a man from the people of the past or those who preceded you. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said a sentence meaning: Allah had given him wealth and children. When his death approached, he 
said to his sons, "What kind of father have I been to you?" They replied, "You have been a good 
father." He told them that he had not presented any good deed before Allah, and if Allah should get 
hold of him He would punish him.' "So look!" he added, "When I die, burn me, and when I turn into 
coal, crush me, and when there comes a windy day, scatter my ashes in the wind." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added, "Then by Allah, he took a firm promise from his children to do so, and they did so. (They burnt 
him after his death) and threw his ashes on a windy day. Then Allah commanded to his ashes. "Be," 
and behold! He became a man standing! Allah said, "O My slave! What made you do what you did?" 
He replied, "For fear of You." Nothing saved him then but Allah's Mercy (So Allah forgave him).
Bukhari:7509 Narrated Anas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "On the Day of Resurrection I will intercede and say, "O my Lord! Admit 
into Paradise (even) those who have faith equal to a mustard seed in their hearts." Such people will 
enter Paradise, and then I will say, 'O (Allah) admit into Paradise (even) those who have the least 
amount of faith in their hearts." Anas then said: As if I were just now looking at the fingers of Allah's 
Apostle.
Bukhari:7510 Narrated Ma`bad bin Hilal Al-`Anzi:We, i.e., some people from Basra gathered and went to Anas bin Malik, and we went in company with 
Thabit Al-Bunnani so that he might ask him about the Hadith of Intercession on our behalf. Behold, 
Anas was in his palace, and our arrival coincided with his Duha prayer. We asked permission to enter 
and he admitted us while he was sitting on his bed. We said to Thabit, "Do not ask him about anything 
else first but the Hadith of Intercession." He said, "O Abu Hamza! There are your brethren from Basra 
coming to ask you about the Hadith of Intercession." Anas then said, "Muhammad talked to us saying, 
'On the Day of Resurrection the people will surge with each other like waves, and then they will come 
to Adam and say, 'Please intercede for us with your Lord.' He will say, 'I am not fit for that but you'd 
better go to Abraham as he is the Khalil of the Beneficent.' They will go to Abraham and he will say, 
'I am not fit for that, but you'd better go to Moses as he is the one to whom Allah spoke directly.' So 
they will go to Moses and he will say, 'I am not fit for that, but you'd better go to Jesus as he is a soul 
created by Allah and His Word.' (Be: And it was) they will go to Jesus and he will say, 'I am not fit for 
that, but you'd better go to Muhammad.' 
They would come to me and I would say, 'I am for that.' Then I will ask for my Lord's permission, and 
it will be given, and then He will inspire me to praise Him with such praises as I do not know now. So 
I will praise Him with those praises and will fall down, prostrate before Him. Then it will be said, 'O 
Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for your will be granted 
(your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.' I will say, 'O Lord, my 
followers! My followers!' And then it will be said, 'Go and take out of Hell (Fire) all those who have 
faith in their hearts, equal to the weight of a barley grain.' I will go and do so and return to praise Him 
with the same praises, and fall down (prostrate) before Him. Then it will be said, 'O Muhammad, raise 
your head and speak, for you will be listened to, and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and 
intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.' I will say, 'O Lord, my followers! My followers!' It 
will be said, 'Go and take out of it all those who have faith in their hearts equal to the weight of a 
small ant or a mustard seed.' I will go and do so and return to praise Him with the same praises, and 
fall down in prostration before Him. It will be said, 'O, Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for 
you will be listened to, and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your 
intercession will be accepted.' I will say, 'O Lord, my followers!' Then He will say, 'Go and take out 
(all those) in whose hearts there is faith even to the lightest, lightest mustard seed. (Take them) out of 
the Fire.' I will go and do so."' 
When we left Anas, I said to some of my companions, "Let's pass by Al-Hasan who is hiding himself 
in the house of Abi Khalifa and request him to tell us what Anas bin Malik has told us." So we went to 
him and we greeted him and he admitted us. We said to him, "O Abu Sa`id! We came to you from 
your brother Anas Bin Malik and he related to us a Hadith about the intercession the like of which I 
have never heard." He said, "What is that?" Then we told him of the Hadith and said, "He stopped at 
this point (of the Hadith)." He said, "What then?" We said, "He did not add anything to that." He said, 
Anas related the Hadith to me twenty years ago when he was a young fellow. I don't know whether he 
forgot or if he did not like to let you depend on what he might have said." We said, "O Abu Sa`id ! Let 
us know that." He smiled and said, "Man was created hasty. I did not mention that, but that I wanted 
to inform you of it. 
Anas told me the same as he told you and said that the Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'I then return for a fourth time 
and praise Him similarly and prostrate before Him me the same as he 'O Muhammad, raise your head 
and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request): and intercede, 
for your intercession will be accepted .' I will say, 'O Lord, allow me to intercede for whoever said, 
'None has the right to be worshiped except Allah.' Then Allah will say, 'By my Power, and my 
Majesty, and by My Supremacy, and by My Greatness, I will take out of Hell (Fire) whoever said: 
'None has the right to be worshipped except Allah.' ''
Bukhari:7511 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The person who will be the last one to enter Paradise and the last to come out of 
Hell (Fire) will be a man who will come out crawling, and his Lord will say to him, 'Enter Paradise.' 
He will reply, 'O Lord, Paradise is full.' Allah will give him the same order thrice, and each time the 
man will give Him the same reply, i.e., 'Paradise is full.' Thereupon Allah will say (to him), 'Ten times 
of the world is for you.' "
Bukhari:7512 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but his Lord will talk to him, and there will be 
no interpreter between him and Allah. He will look to his right and see nothing but his deeds which he 
has sent forward, and will look to his left and see nothing but his deeds which he has sent forward, and 
will look in front of him and see nothing but the (Hell) Fire facing him. So save yourself from the 
(Hell) Fire even with half a date (given in charity)." Al-A`mash said: `Amr bin Murra said, Khaithama 
narrated the same and added, '..even with a good word.' "
Bukhari:7513 Narrated `Abdullah:A priest from the Jews came (to the Prophet) and said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will place 
all the heavens on one finger, and the Earth on one finger, and the waters and the land on one finger, 
and all the creation on one finger, and then He will shake them and say. 'I am the King! I am the 
King!'" I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) smiling till his premolar teeth became visible expressing his amazement and 
his belief in what he had said. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'No just estimate have they made of Allah 
such as due to Him (up to)...; High is He above the partners they attribute to Him.' (39.67)
Bukhari:7514 Narrated Safwan bin Muhriz:A man asked Ibn `Umar, "What have you heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) regarding An-Najwa?" He said, 
"Everyone of you will come close to His Lord Who will screen him from the people and say to him, 
'Did you do so-and-so?' He will reply, 'Yes.' Then Allah will say, 'Did you do so-and-so?' He will 
reply, 'Yes.' So Allah will question him and make him confess, and then Allah will say, 'I screened 
your sins in the world and forgive them for you today.' "
Bukhari:7515 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Adam and Moses debated with each other and Moses said, 'You are Adam who 
turned out your offspring from Paradise.' Adam said, "You are Moses whom Allah chose for His 
Message and for His direct talk, yet you blame me for a matter which had been ordained for me even 
before my creation?' Thus Adam overcame Moses."
Bukhari:7516 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The believers will be assembled on the Day of Resurrection and they will say, 
'Let us look for someone to intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us from this place of 
ours.' So they will go to Adam and say, 'You are Adam, the father of mankind, and Allah created you 
with His Own Hands and ordered the Angels to prostrate before you, and He taught you the names of 
all things; so please intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us.' Adam will say, to them, 
'I am not fit for that,' and then he will mention to them his mistake which he has committed.' "
Bukhari:7517 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was taken for a journey from the sacred mosque (of Mecca) Al-Ka`ba: 
Three persons came to him (in a dreamy while he was sleeping in the Sacred Mosque before the 
Divine Inspiration was revealed to Him. One of them said, "Which of them is he?" The middle 
(second) angel said, "He is the best of them." The last (third) angle said, "Take the best of them." Only 
that much happened on that night and he did not see them till they came on another night, i.e. after 
The Divine Inspiration was revealed to him. (Fath-ul-Bari Page 258, Vol. 17) and he saw them, his 
eyes were asleep but his heart was not----and so is the case with the prophets: their eyes sleep while 
their hearts do not sleep. So those angels did not talk to him till they carried him and placed him 
beside the well of Zamzam. From among them Gabriel took charge of him. Gabriel cut open (the part 
of his body) between his throat and the middle of his chest (heart) and took all the material out of his 
chest and `Abdomen and then washed it with Zamzam water with his own hands till he cleansed the 
inside of his body, and then a gold tray containing a gold bowl full of belief and wisdom was brought 
and then Gabriel stuffed his chest and throat blood vessels with it and then closed it (the chest). He 
then ascended with him to the heaven of the world and knocked on one of its doors. 
The dwellers of the Heaven asked, 'Who is it?' He said, "Gabriel." They said, "Who is accompanying 
you?" He said, "Muhammad." They said, "Has he been called?" He said, "Yes" They said, "He is 
welcomed." So the dwellers of the Heaven became pleased with his arrival, and they did not know 
what Allah would do to the Prophet (ﷺ) on earth unless Allah informed them. The Prophet (ﷺ) met Adam over 
the nearest Heaven. Gabriel said to the Prophet, "He is your father; greet him." The Prophet (ﷺ) greeted 
him and Adam returned his greeting and said, "Welcome, O my Son! O what a good son you are!" 
Behold, he saw two flowing rivers, while he was in the nearest sky. He asked, "What are these two 
rivers, O Gabriel?" Gabriel said, "These are the sources of the Nile and the Euphrates." 
Then Gabriel took him around that Heaven and behold, he saw another river at the bank of which 
there was a palace built of pearls and emerald. He put his hand into the river and found its mud like 
musk Adhfar. He asked, "What is this, O Gabriel?" Gabriel said, "This is the Kauthar which your Lord 
has kept for you." Then Gabriel ascended (with him) to the second Heaven and the angels asked the 
same questions as those on the first Heaven, i.e., "Who is it?" Gabriel replied, "Gabriel". They asked, 
"Who is accompanying you?" He said, "Muhammad." They asked, "Has he been sent for?" He said, 
"Yes." Then they said, "He is welcomed.'' Then he (Gabriel) ascended with the Prophet (ﷺ) to the third 
Heaven, and the angels said the same as the angels of the first and the second Heavens had said. 
Then he ascended with him to the fourth Heaven and they said the same; and then he ascended with 
him to the fifth Heaven and they said the same; and then he ascended with him to the sixth Heaven 
and they said the same; then he ascended with him to the seventh Heaven and they said the same. On 
each Heaven there were prophets whose names he had mentioned and of whom I remember Idris on 
the second Heaven, Aaron on the fourth Heavens another prophet whose name I don't remember, on 
the fifth Heaven, Abraham on the sixth Heaven, and Moses on the seventh Heaven because of his 
privilege of talking to Allah directly. Moses said (to Allah), "O Lord! I thought that none would be 
raised up above me." 
But Gabriel ascended with him (the Prophet) for a distance above that, the distance of which only 
Allah knows, till he reached the Lote Tree (beyond which none may pass) and then the Irresistible, the 
Lord of Honor and Majesty approached and came closer till he (Gabriel) was about two bow lengths 
or (even) nearer. (It is said that it was Gabriel who approached and came closer to the Prophet. (Fate 
Al-Bari Page 263, 264, Vol. 17). Among the things which Allah revealed to him then, was: "Fifty 
prayers were enjoined on his followers in a day and a night." 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) descended till he met Moses, and then Moses stopped him and asked, "O 
Muhammad ! What did your Lord en join upon you?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied," He enjoined upon me to 
perform fifty prayers in a day and a night." Moses said, "Your followers cannot do that; Go back so 
that your Lord may reduce it for you and for them." So the Prophet (ﷺ) turned to Gabriel as if he wanted 
to consult him about that issue. Gabriel told him of his opinion, saying, "Yes, if you wish." So Gabriel 
ascended with him to the Irresistible and said while he was in his place, "O Lord, please lighten our 
burden as my followers cannot do that." So Allah deducted for him ten prayers where upon he 
returned to Moses who stopped him again and kept on sending him back to his Lord till the enjoined 
prayers were reduced to only five prayers. 
Then Moses stopped him when the prayers had been reduced to five and said, "O Muhammad! By 
Allah, I tried to persuade my nation, Bani Israel to do less than this, but they could not do it and gave 
it up. However, your followers are weaker in body, heart, sight and hearing, so return to your Lord so 
that He may lighten your burden." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned towards Gabriel for advice and Gabriel did not disapprove of that. So he ascended 
with him for the fifth time. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Lord, my followers are weak in their bodies, hearts, 
hearing and constitution, so lighten our burden." On that the Irresistible said, "O Muhammad!" the 
Prophet replied, "Labbaik and Sa`daik." Allah said, "The Word that comes from Me does not change, 
so it will be as I enjoined on you in the Mother of the Book." Allah added, "Every good deed will be 
rewarded as ten times so it is fifty (prayers) in the Mother of the Book (in reward) but you are to 
perform only five (in practice)." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Moses who asked, "What have you done?" He said, "He has lightened our 
burden: He has given us for every good deed a tenfold reward." Moses said, "By Allah! I tried to 
make Bani Israel observe less than that, but they gave it up. So go back to your Lord that He may 
lighten your burden further." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Moses! By Allah, I feel shy of returning too 
many times to my Lord." On that Gabriel said, "Descend in Allah's Name." The Prophet (ﷺ) then woke 
while he was in the Sacred Mosque (at Mecca).
Bukhari:7518 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to the people of Paradise, "O the people of Paradise!" They will say, 
'Labbaik, O our Lord, and Sa`daik, and all the good is in Your Hands!' Allah will say, "Are you 
satisfied?' They will say, 'Why shouldn't we be satisfied, O our Lord as You have given us what You 
have not given to any of Your created beings?' He will say, 'Shall I not give you something better than 
that?' They will say, 'O our Lord! What else could be better than that?' He will say, 'I bestow My 
Pleasure on you and will never be angry with you after that.' "
Bukhari:7519 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was preaching while a bedouin was sitting there. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man from 
among the people of Paradise will request Allah to allow him to cultivate the land Allah will say to 
him, 'Haven't you got whatever you desire?' He will reply, 'yes, but I like to cultivate the land (Allah 
will permit him and) he will sow the seeds, and within seconds the plants will grow and ripen and (the 
yield) will be harvested and piled in heaps like mountains. On that Allah will say (to him), "Take, here 
you are, O son of Adam, for nothing satisfies you.' "On that the bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Such man must be either from Quraish or from Ansar, for they are farmers while we are not." On that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled .
Bukhari:7520 Narrated `Abdullah:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "What is the biggest sin in the sight of Allah?" He said, "To set up rivals unto 
Allah though He alone created you." I said, "In fact, that is a tremendous sin," and added, "What 
next?" He said, "To kill your son being afraid that he may share your food with you." I further asked, 
"What next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Bukhari:7521 Narrated `Abdullah:Two person of Bani Thaqif and one from Quarish (or two persons from Quraish and one from Bani 
Thaqif) who had fat bellies but little wisdom, met near the Ka`ba. One of them said, "Did you see that 
Allah hears what we say? " The other said, "He hears us if we speak aloud, but He does not hear if we 
speak in stealthy quietness (softly)." The third fellow said, "If He hears when we speak aloud, then He 
surely hears us if we speak in stealthy quietness (softly)." So Allah revealed the Verse:-- 
'And you have not been screening against yourselves, lest your ears, and your eyes and your skins 
should testify against you..." (41.22)
Bukhari:7522 Narrated `Ikrima:Ibn `Abbas said, "How can you ask the people of the Scriptures about their Books while you have 
Allah's Book (the Qur'an) which is the most recent of the Books revealed by Allah, and you read it in 
its pure undistorted form?"
Bukhari:7523 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah:`Abdullah bin `Abbas said, "O the group of Muslims! How can you ask the people of the Scriptures 
about anything while your Book which Allah has revealed to your Prophet contains the most recent 
news from Allah and is pure and not distorted? Allah has told you that the people of the Scriptures 
have changed some of Allah's Books and distorted it and wrote something with their own hands and 
said, 'This is from Allah, so as to have a minor gain for it. Won't the knowledge that has come to you 
stop you from asking them? No, by Allah, we have never seen a man from them asking you about that 
(the Book Al-Qur'an ) which has been revealed to you.
Bukhari:7524 Narrated Musa bin Abi `Aisha:Sa`id bin Jubair reported from Ibn `Abbas (regarding the explanation of the Verse: 'Do not move your 
tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste therewith) . He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to undergo great 
difficulty in receiving the Divine Inspiration and used to move his lips.' Ibn `Abbas said (to Sa`id), "I 
move them (my lips) as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to move his lips." And Sa`id said (to me), "I move my 
lips as I saw Ibn `Abbas moving his lips," and then he moved his lips. So Allah revealed:-- 
'(O Muhammad!) Do not move your tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste therewith. It is for 
Us to collect it and give you (O Muhammad) the ability to recite it. (i.e., to collect it in your chest and 
then you recite it).' (75.16-17) But when We have recited it, to you (O Muhammad through Gabriel) 
then follow you its recital.' (75.18) This means, "You should listen to it and keep quiet and then it is 
upon Us to make you recite it." 
The narrator added, "So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to listen whenever Gabriel came to him, and when 
Gabriel left, the Prophet (ﷺ) would recite the Qur'an as Gabriel had recited it to him."
Bukhari:7525 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:regarding the explanation of the Verse:-- '(O Muhammad!) Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in 
a low tone.' (17.110) This Verse was revealed while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was hiding himself at Mecca. At 
that time, when he led his companions in prayer, he used to raise his voice while reciting the Qur'an; 
and if the pagans heard him, they would abuse the Qur'an, its Revealer, and the one who brought it. So 
Allah said to His Prophet: "Neither say your prayer aloud. i.e., your recitation (of Qur'an) lest the 
pagans should hear (it) and abuse the Qur'an" nor say it in a low tone, "lest your voice should fail to 
reach your companions, "but follow a way between." (17.110)
Bukhari:7526 Narrated `Aisha:The Verse:-- '(O Muhammad!) Neither say your prayer aloud nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110) was 
revealed in connection with the invocations.
Bukhari:7527 Narrated Abu Salama:Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever does not recite Qur'an in a nice voice is not from 
us,' and others said extra," (that means) to recite it aloud."
Bukhari:7528 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like of except the like of two men: a man whom Allah has 
given the Qur'an and he recites it during the hours of the night and the hours of the day, in which case 
one may say, "If I were given the same as this man has been given, I would do the same as he is 
doing.' The other is a man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it in the right way, in which 
case one may say, 'If I were given the same as he has been given, I would do the same as he is doing."
Bukhari:7529 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like of except the like of two (persons): a man whom Allah 
has given the knowledge of the Qur'an and he recites it during the hours of the night and the hours of 
the day; and a man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it (in Allah's Cause) during the hours 
of the night and during the hours of the day."
Bukhari:7530 Narrated Al-Mughira:Our Prophet has informed us our Lord's Message that whoever of us is martyred, will go to Paradise.
Bukhari:7531 Narrated `Aisha:Whoever tells you that the Prophet (ﷺ) concealed something of the Divine Inspiration, do not believe 
him, for Allah said: 'O Apostle Muhammad! Proclaim (the Message) which has been sent down to you 
from your Lord, and if you do it not, then you have not conveyed His Message.' (5.67)
Bukhari:7532 Narrated `Abdullah:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which sin is the biggest in Allah's Sight?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To set 
up rivals unto Allah though He Alone created you." That man said, "What is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"To kill your son lest he should share your food with you.'' The man said, "What is next?" The 
Prophet said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor." Then Allah 
revealed in confirmation of that: "And those who invoke not with Allah any other god, nor kill such 
life as Allah has made sacred except for just cause, nor commit illegal sexual intercourse and whoever 
does this shall receive the punishment..... (25.68)
Bukhari:7533 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Your stay (in this world) in comparison to the stay of the nations preceding you, 
is like the period between `Asr prayer and the sun set (in comparison to a whole day). The people of 
the Torah were given the Torah and they acted on it till midday and then they were unable to carry on. 
And they were given (a reward equal to) one Qirat each. Then the people of the Gospel were given the 
Gospel and they acted on it till `Asr Prayer and then they were unable to carry on, so they were given 
la reward equal to) one Qirat each. Then you were given the Qur'an and you acted on it till sunset, 
therefore you were given (a reward equal to) two Qirats each. On that, the people of the Scriptures 
said, 'These people (Muslims) did less work than we but they took a bigger reward.' Allah said (to 
them). 'Have I done any oppression to you as regards your rights?' They said, "No." Then Allah said, 
'That is My Blessing which I grant to whomsoever I will.' "
Bukhari:7534 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "What deeds are the best?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "(1) To perform the (daily 
compulsory) prayers at their (early) stated fixed times, (2) to be good and dutiful to one's own 
parents, (3) and to participate in Jihad in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:7535 Narrated Al-Hasan:`Amr bin Taghlib said, "Some property was given to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he gave it to some people and 
withheld it from some others. Then he came to know that they (the latter) were dissatisfied. So the 
Prophet said, 'I give to one man and leave (do not give) another, and the one to whom I do not give is 
dearer to me than the one to whom I give. I give to some people because of the impatience and 
discontent present in their hearts, and leave other people because of the content and goodness Allah 
has bestowed on them, and one of them is `Amr bin Taghlib." `Amr bin Taghlib said, "The sentence 
which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said in my favor is dearer to me than the possession of nice red camels."
Bukhari:7536 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My Lord says, 'If My slave comes nearer to me for a span, I go nearer to him for a 
cubit; and if he comes nearer to Me for a cubit, I go nearer to him for the span of outstretched arms; 
and if he comes to Me walking, I go to him running.' "
Bukhari:7537 Narrated Abu Huraira:Perhaps the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the following (as Allah's Saying): "If My slave comes nearer to Me for 
a span, I go nearer to him for a cubit; and if he comes nearer to Me for a cubit; I go nearer to him for 
the span of outstretched arms. (See Hadith No. 502)
Bukhari:7538 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said that your Lord said, "Every (sinful) deed can be expiated; and the fast is for Me, so I 
will give the reward for it; and the smell which comes out of the mouth of a fasting person, is better in 
Allah's Sight than the smell of musk." (See Hadith No. 584)
Bukhari:7539 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said that his Lord said: "It does not befit a slave that he should say that he is better than 
Jonah (Yunus) bin Matta.
Bukhari:7540 Narrated Shu`ba:Mu'awiya bin Qurra reported that `Abdullah bin Al-Maghaffal Al-Muzani said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
on the day of the Conquest of Mecca, riding his she-camel and reciting Surat-al-Fath (48) or part of 
Surat-al-Fath. He recited it in a vibrating and pleasant voice. Then Mu'awiya recited as `Abdullah bin 
Mughaffal had done and said, "Were I not afraid that the people would crowd around me, I would 
surely recite in a vibrating pleasant voice as Ibn Mughaffal did, imitating the Prophet." I asked 
Muawiya, "How did he recite in that tone?" He said thrice, "A, A , A."
Bukhari:7541 And Ibn 'Abbas narrated:Abu Sufyan bin Harb told me that Heraclius called for his translator and then asked for the letter of the Prophet (ﷺ), and the former read it (thus):"In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Merciful. (This letter is) from Muhammad bin 'Abdullah, to Heraclius. "...O people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians): Come to a word that is just between us and you that we worship none but Allah..." (V.3:64)
Bukhari:7542 Narrated Abu Huraira:The people of the Scripture used to read the Torah in Hebrew and explain it to the Muslims in Arabic. 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not believe the people of the Scripture, and do not disbelieve them, but 
say, 'We believe in Allah and whatever has been revealed...' (3.84)
Bukhari:7543 Narrated Ibn `Umar:A Jew and Jewess were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a charge of committing an illegal sexual 
intercourse. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked the Jews, "What do you (usually) do with them?" They said, "We 
blacken their faces and disgrace them." He said, "Bring here the Torah and recite it, if you are 
truthful." They (fetched it and) came and asked a one-eyed man to recite. He went on reciting till he 
reached a portion on which he put his hand. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Lift up your hand!" He lifted his hand 
up and behold, there appeared the verse of Ar-Rajm (stoning of the adulterers to death). Then he said, 
"O Muhammad! They should be stoned to death but we conceal this Divine Law among ourselves." 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the two sinners be stoned to death and, and they were stoned to death, 
and I saw the man protecting the woman from the stones. (See Hadith No. 809, Vol. 8)
Bukhari:7544 Narrated Abu Huraira:that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah does not listen to anything as He listens to the recitation of 
the Qur'an by a Prophet who recites it in attractive audible sweet sounding voice."
Bukhari:7545 Narrated `Aisha:(when the slanderers said what they said about her): I went to my bed knowing at that time that I was 
innocent and that Allah would reveal my innocence, but by Allah, I never thought that Allah would 
reveal in my favor a revelation which would be recited, for I considered myself too unimportant to be 
talked about by Allah in the Divine Revelation that was to be recited. So Allah revealed the ten Verses 
(of Surat-an-Nur). 'Those who brought a false charge........' (24.11-20)
Bukhari:7546 Narrated Al-Bara':I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat at-Tin waz Zaitun (By the Fig and the Olive) in the `Isha' prayer and 
I have never heard anybody with a better voice or recitation than his.
Bukhari:7547 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was hiding himself in Mecca and used to recite the (Qur'an) in a loud voice. When the 
pagans heard him they would abuse the Qur'an and the one who brought it, so Allah said to His 
Prophet: 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110)
Bukhari:7548 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abdur-Rahman:that Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri said to him, "I see that you like sheep and the desert, so when you are 
looking after your sheep or when you are in the desert and want to pronounce the Adhan, raise your 
voice, for no Jinn, human being or any other things hear the Mu`adh-dhin's voice but will be a witness 
for him on the Day of Resurrection." Abu Sa`id added, "I heard this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:7549 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an with his head in my lap while I used to be in my periods (having 
menses).
Bukhari:7550 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:I heard Hisham bin Hakim reciting Surat-al-Furqan during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I listened to 
his recitation and noticed that he was reciting in a way that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not taught me. I was 
about to jump over him while He was still in prayer, but I waited patiently and when he finished his 
prayer, I put my sheet round his neck (and pulled him) and said, "Who has taught you this Sura which 
I have heard you reciting?" Hisham said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught it to me." I said, "You are telling a 
lie, for he taught it to me in a way different from the way you have recited it!" Then I started leading 
(dragged) him to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said (to the Prophet), " I have heard this man reciting Surat-al- 
Furqan in a way that you have not taught me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "(O `Umar) release him! Recite, O 
Hisham." Hisham recited in the way I heard him reciting. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It was revealed like 
this." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite, O `Umar!" I recited in the way he had taught me, whereupon 
he said, "It was revealed like this," and added, "The Qur'an has been revealed to be recited in seven 
different ways, so recite of it whichever is easy for you ." (See Hadith No. 514, Vol. 6)
Bukhari:7551 Narrated `Imran:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why should a doer (people) try to do good deeds?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Everybody will find easy to do such deeds as will lead him to his destined place for which he has 
been created.'
Bukhari:7552 Narrated `Ali:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a funeral procession, he took a stick and started scraping the earth with it 
and said, "There is none of you but has his place assigned either in Hell or in Paradise." They (the 
people) said, "Shall we not depend upon that (and give up doing any deeds)?' He said, " Carry on 
doing (good deeds) for everybody will find it easy to do such deeds as will lead him to his destined 
place for which he has been created ." (And then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Verse):-- 'As for him who 
gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah...' (92.5)
Bukhari:7553 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Before Allah created the creations, He wrote a Book (wherein He has 
written): My Mercy has preceded my Anger." and that (Book) is written with Him over the Throne."
Bukhari:7554 Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying: "Before Allah created the creations, He wrote a Book (wherein He has written): "My Mercy has preceded my Anger.' And that is written with Him over the Throne."(seeHadith 3194)
Bukhari:7555 Narrated Zahdam:There were good relations and brotherhood between this tribe of Jurm and the Ash`ariyyin. Once, 
while we were sitting with Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari, there was brought to him a meal which contained 
chicken meat, and there was sitting beside him, a man from the tribe of Bani Taimul-lah who looked 
like one of the Mawali. Abu Musa invited the man to eat but the man said, "I have seen chicken eating 
some dirty things, and I have taken an oath not to eat chicken." Abu Musa said to him, "Come along, 
let me tell you something in this regard. Once I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a few men from Ash`ariyyin 
and we asked him for mounts. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, By Allah, I will not mount you on anything; besides I 
do not have anything to mount you on.' Then a few camels from the war booty were brought to the 
Prophet, and he asked about us, saying, 'Where are the group of Ash`ariyyin?' So he ordered for five 
fat camels to be given to us and then we set out. We said, 'What have we done? Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took 
an oath that he would not give us anything to ride and that he had nothing for us to ride, yet he 
provided us with mounts. We made Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forget his oath! By Allah, we will never be 
successful.' So we returned to him and reminded him of his oath. He said, 'I have not provided you 
with the mount, but Allah has done so. By Allah, I may take an oath to do something, but on finding 
something else which is better, I do that which is better and make the expiation for my oath.' "
Bukhari:7556 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The delegates of `Abdul Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "The pagans of the tribe of Mudar 
intervene between you and us therefore we cannot come to you except in the Holy months. So please 
order us to do something good (Religious deeds) by which we may enter Paradise (by acting on them) 
and we may inform our people whom we have left behind to observe it." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I order 
you to do four things and forbid you from four things: I order you to believe in Allah. Do you know 
what is meant by belief in Allah? It is to testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, 
to offer prayers perfectly, to give Zakat, and to give Al-Khumus (one-fifth of the war booty) (in 
Allah's Cause). And I forbid you four things, (i.e., Do not drink alcoholic drinks) Ad-Dubba, An- 
Naqir, (pitched water skins), Az-Zuruf, Al-Muzaffat and Al--Hantam (names of utensils used for the 
preparation of alcoholic drinks)." (See Hadith No. 50, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:7557 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The painter of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it 
will be said to them, Make alive what you have created.' "
Bukhari:7558 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The painters of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it 
will be said to them, 'Make alive what you have created."
Bukhari:7559 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah said, 'Who are most unjust than those who try to create something 
like My creation? I challenge them to create even a smallest ant, a wheat grain or a barley grain.' "
Bukhari:7560 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The example of a believer who recites the Qur'an is that of a citron (a citrus fruit) 
which is good in taste and good in smell. And the believer who does not recite the Qur'an is like a date 
which has a good taste but no smell. And the example of an impious person who recites the Qur'an is 
that of Ar-Rihana (an aromatic plant) which smells good but is bitter in taste. And the example of an 
impious person who does not recite the Qur'an is that of a colocynth which is bitter in taste and has no 
smell."
Bukhari:7561 Narrated `Aisha:Some people asked the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the soothsayers. He said, "They are nothing." They said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Some of their talks come true." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That word which happens to be 
true is what a Jinn snatches away by stealth (from the Heaven) and pours it in the ears of his friend 
(the foreteller) with a sound like the cackling of a hen. The soothsayers then mix with that word, one 
hundred lies."
Bukhari:7562 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will emerge from the East some people who will recite the Qur'an but it will 
not exceed their throats and who will go out of (renounce) the religion (Islam) as an arrow passes 
through the game, and they will never come back to it unless the arrow, comes back to the middle of 
the bow (by itself) (i.e., impossible). The people asked, "What will their signs be?" He said, "Their 
sign will be the habit of shaving (of their beards and their heads). (Fath-ul-Bari, Page 322, Vol. 17th)
Bukhari:7563 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(There are) two words which are dear to the Beneficent (Allah) and very light (easy) for the tongue (to say), but very heavy in weight in the balance. They are: ''Subhan Allah wa-bi hamdihi'' and ''Subhan Allah Al-`Azim."(see Hadith6682).
