Bukhari:1001 Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:Anas was asked, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) recite Qunut in the Fajr prayer?" Anas replied in the affirmative. He 
was further asked, "Did he recite Qunut before bowing?" Anas replied, "He recited Qunut after 
bowing for some time (for one month)."
Bukhari:1002 Narrated `Asim:I asked Anas bin Malik about the Qunut. Anas replied, "Definitely it was (recited)". I asked, "Before 
bowing or after it?" Anas replied, "Before bowing." I added, "So and so has told me that you had 
informed him that it had been after bowing." Anas said, "He told an untruth (i.e. "was mistaken," 
according to the Hijazi dialect). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited Qunut after bowing for a period of one 
month." Anas added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) sent about seventy men (who knew the Qur'an by heart) towards 
the pagans (of Najd) who were less than they in number and there was a peace treaty between them 
and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (but the Pagans broke the treaty and killed the seventy men). So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
recited Qunut for a period of one month asking Allah to punish them."
Bukhari:1003 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Qunut for one month (in the Fajr prayer) asking Allah to punish the tribes of Ral 
and Dhakwan.
Bukhari:1004 Narrated Anas:The Qunut used to be recited in the Maghrib and the Fajr prayers.
Bukhari:1005 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim's uncle:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) went out to offer the Istisqa' prayer and turned (and put on) his cloak inside out.
Bukhari:1006 Narrated Abu Huraira;:Whenever the Prophet (p.b.u.h) lifted his head from the bowing in the last rak`a he used to say: "O 
Allah! Save `Aiyash bin Abi Rabi`a. O Allah! Save Salama bin Hisham. O Allah! Save Walid bin 
Walid. O Allah! Save the weak faithful believers. O Allah! Be hard on the tribes of Mudar and send 
(famine) years on them like the famine years of (Prophet) Joseph ." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "Allah 
forgive the tribes of Ghifar and save the tribes of Aslam." Abu Az-Zinad (a sub-narrator) said, "The 
Qunut used to be recited by the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Fajr prayer."
Bukhari:1007 Narrated Masruq:We were with `Abdullah and he said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw the refusal of the people to accept Islam 
he said, "O Allah! Send (famine) years on them for (seven years) like the seven years (of famine 
during the time) of (Prophet) Joseph." So famine overtook them for one year and destroyed every kind 
of life to such an extent that the people started eating hides, carcasses and rotten dead animals. 
Whenever one of them looked towards the sky, he would (imagine himself to) see smoke because of 
hunger. So Abu Sufyan went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! You order people to obey Allah 
and to keep good relations with kith and kin. No doubt the people of your tribe are dying, so please 
pray to Allah for them." So Allah revealed: "Then watch you For the day that The sky will bring forth 
a kind Of smoke Plainly visible ... Verily! You will return (to disbelief) On the day when We shall 
seize You with a mighty grasp. (44.10-16) Ibn Mas`ud added, "Al-Batsha (i.e. grasp) happened in the 
battle of Badr and no doubt smoke, Al-Batsha, Al-Lizam, and the verse of Surat Ar-Rum have all 
passed .
Bukhari:1008 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:My father said, "I heard Ibn `Umar reciting the poetic verses of Abu Talib: And a white (person) (i.e. 
the Prophet) who is requested to pray for rain and who takes care of the orphans and is the guardian of 
widows." Salim's father (Ibn `Umar) said, "The following poetic verse occurred to my mind while I 
was looking at the face of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) while he was praying for rain. He did not get down till 
the rain water flowed profusely from every roof-gutter: And a white (person) who is requested to pray 
for rain and who takes care of the orphans and is the guardian of widows . . . And these were the 
words of Abu Talib."
Bukhari:1009 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:My father said, "I heard Ibn `Umar reciting the poetic verses of Abu Talib: And a white (person) (i.e. 
the Prophet) who is requested to pray for rain and who takes care of the orphans and is the guardian of 
widows." Salim's father (Ibn `Umar) said, "The following poetic verse occurred to my mind while I 
was looking at the face of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) while he was praying for rain. He did not get down till 
the rain water flowed profusely from every roof-gutter: And a white (person) who is requested to pray 
for rain and who takes care of the orphans and is the guardian of widows . . . And these were the 
words of Abu Talib."
Bukhari:1010 Narrated Anas:Whenever drought threatened them, `Umar bin Al-Khattab, used to ask Al-Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib 
to invoke Allah for rain. He used to say, "O Allah! We used to ask our Prophet to invoke You for rain, 
and You would bless us with rain, and now we ask his uncle to invoke You for rain. O Allah ! Bless 
us with rain."(1) And so it would rain.
Bukhari:1011 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his cloak inside out on Istisqa.
Bukhari:1012 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) went towards the Musalla and invoked Allah for rain. He faced the Qibla and wore his 
cloak inside out, and offered two rak`at.
Bukhari:1013 Narrated Sharik bin `Abdullah bin Abi Namir:I heard Anas bin Malik saying, "On a Friday a person entered the main Mosque through the gate 
facing the pulpit while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba. The man stood in front of Allah's 
Apostle and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The livestock are dying and the roads are cut off; so please pray 
to Allah for rain.' " Anas added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) raised both his hands and said, 'O Allah! 
Bless us with rain! O Allah! Bless us with rain! O Allah! Bless us with rain!' " Anas added, "By Allah, 
we could not see any trace of cloud in the sky and there was no building or a house between us and 
(the mountains of) Sila." Anas added, "A heavy cloud like a shield appeared from behind it (i.e. Sila' 
Mountain). When it came in the middle of the sky, it spread and then rained." Anas further said, "By 
Allah! We could not see the sun for a week. Next Friday a person entered through the same gate and 
at that time Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was delivering the Friday's Khutba. The man stood in front of him and 
said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The livestock are dying and the roads are cut off, please pray to Allah to 
withhold rain.' " Anas added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I raised both his hands and said, 'O Allah! Round about 
us and not on us. O Allah! On the plateaus, on the mountains, on the hills, in the valleys and on the 
places where trees grow.' So the rain stopped and we came out walking in the sun." Sharik asked Anas 
whether it was the same person who had asked for the rain (the last Friday). Anas replied that he did 
not know.
Bukhari:1014 Narrated Sharik:Anas bin Malik said, "A person entered the Mosque on a Friday through the gate facing the Daril- 
Qada' and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was standing delivering the Khutba (sermon). The man stood in front of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), livestock are dying and the roads are cut off; please pray 
to Allah for rain.' So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) raised both his hands and said, 'O Allah! Bless us with 
rain. O Allah! Bless us with rain. O Allah! Bless us with rain!" Anas added, "By Allah, there were no 
clouds in the sky and there was no house or building between us and the mountain of Sila'. Then a big 
cloud like a shield appeared from behind it (i.e. Silas Mountain) and when it came in the middle of the 
sky, it spread and then rained. By Allah! We could not see the sun for a week. The next Friday, a 
person entered through the same gate and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was delivering the Friday Khutba and the 
man stood in front of him and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The livestock are dying and the roads are cut 
off; Please pray to Allah to withhold rain.' " Anas added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised both his hands and 
said, 'O Allah! Round about us and not on us. O Allah!' On the plateaus, on the mountains, on the 
hills, in the valleys and on the places where trees grow.' " Anas added, "The rain stopped and we came 
out, walking in the sun." Sharik asked Anas whether it was the same person who had asked for rain 
the previous Friday. Anas replied that he did not know.
Bukhari:1015 Narrated Qatada:Anas I said, "While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) was delivering the Friday Khutba (sermon) a man came 
and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Rain is scarce; please ask Allah to bless us with rain.' So he invoked 
Allah for it, and it rained so much that we could hardly reach our homes and it continued raining till 
the next Friday." Anas further said, "Then the same or some other person stood up and said, 'O Allah's 
Apostle! Invoke Allah to withhold the rain.' On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I said, 'O Allah! Round about us 
and not on us.' " Anas added, "I saw the clouds dispersing right and left and it continued to rain but 
not over Medina."
Bukhari:1016 Narrated Anas:A man came to the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and said, "Livestock are destroyed and the roads are cut off." So 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked Allah for rain and it rained from that Friday till the next Friday. The same 
person came again and said, "Houses have collapsed, roads are cut off, and the livestock are 
destroyed. Please pray to Allah to withhold the rain." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (stood up and) said, "O Allah! 
(Let it rain) on the plateaus, on the hills, in the valleys and over the places where trees grow." So the 
clouds cleared away from Medina as clothes are taken off .
Bukhari:1017 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Livestock are destroyed and the roads 
are cut off. So please invoke Allah." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed and it rained from that Friday to the 
next Friday. Then he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Houses have collapsed, 
roads are cut off and the livestock are destroyed." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) prayed, "O Allah! (Let 
it rain) on the tops of mountains, on the plateaus, in the valleys and over the places where trees grow." 
So the clouds cleared away from Medina as clothes are taken off.
Bukhari:1018 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I p man complained to the Prophet (ﷺ) about the destruction of livestock and property and the hunger of 
the offspring. So he invoked (Allah for rain. The narrator (Anas) did not mention that the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
worn his cloak inside out or faced the Qibla.
Bukhari:1019 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Livestock are destroyed and the roads 
are cut off; so please invoke Allah." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed for rain and it rained from that Friday 
till the next Friday. Then a man came to the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The 
houses have collapsed, roads are cut off and the livestock are destroyed." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O 
Allah ! (Let it rain) on the tops of the mountains, on the plateaus, in the valleys and over the places 
where trees grow." So the clouds cleared away from Medina as clothes are taken off.
Bukhari:1020 Narrated Masruq:One day I went to Ibn Mas`ud who said, "When Quraish delayed in embracing Islam, the Prophet (ﷺ) I 
invoked Allah to curse them, so they were afflicted with a (famine) year because of which many of 
them died and they ate the carcasses and Abu Sufyan came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'O Muhammad! 
You came to order people to keep good relation with kith and kin and your nation is being destroyed, 
so invoke Allah I ? So the Prophet (ﷺ) I recited the Holy verses of Sirat-Ad-Dukhan: 'Then watch you For 
the day that The sky will Bring forth a kind Of smoke Plainly visible.' (44.10) When the famine was 
taken off, the people renegade once again as nonbelievers. The statement of Allah, (in Sura "Ad- 
Dukhan"-44) refers to that: 'On the day when We shall seize You with a mighty grasp.' (44.16) And 
that was what happened on the day of the battle of Badr." Asbath added on the authority of Mansur, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed for them and it rained heavily for seven days. So the people complained of the 
excessive rain. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O Allah! (Let it rain) around us and not on us.' So the clouds 
dispersed over his head and it rained over the surroundings."
Bukhari:1021 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I was delivering the Khutba (sermon) on a Friday when the people stood up, shouted 
and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! There is no rain (drought), the trees have dried and the livestock are 
destroyed; Please pray to Allah for rain." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said twice, "O Allah! Bless us with rain." 
By Allah, there was no trace of cloud in the sky and suddenly the sky became overcast with clouds 
and it started raining. The Prophet (ﷺ) came down the pulpit and offered the prayer. When he came back 
from the prayer (to his house) it was raining and it rained continuously till the next Friday. When the 
Prophet started delivering the Friday Khutba (sermon), the people started shouting and said to him, 
"The houses have collapsed and the roads are cut off; so please pray to Allah to withhold the rain." So 
the Prophet (ﷺ) smiled and said, "O Allah! Round about us and not on us." So the sky became clear over 
Medina but it kept on raining over the outskirts (of Medina) and not a single drop of rain fell over 
Median. I looked towards the sky which was as bright and clear as a crown.
Bukhari:1022 Narrated 'Abdullah bin Yazid Al-Ansari that he went out with Al-Bara' bin 'Azib, and Zaid bin Arqam and invoked for rain. He ('Abdullah bin Yazid) stood up but not on a pulpit and invoked Allah for rain and then offered two Rak'a prayers with loud recitation without pronouncing Adhan or Iqama. Abu Ishaq said that 'Adbullah bin Yazid had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) (doing the same)
Bukhari:1023 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:that his uncle (who was one of the companions of the Prophet) had told him, "The Prophet (ﷺ) went out 
with the people to invoke Allah for rain for them. He stood up and invoked Allah for rain, then faced 
the Qibla and turned his cloak (inside out) and it rained."
Bukhari:1024 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:from his uncle who said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to invoke Allah for rain. He faced the Qibla invoking 
Allah. He turned over his cloak (inside out) and then offered two rak`at and recited the Qur'an aloud in 
them."
Bukhari:1025 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim from his uncle:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day when he went out to offer the Istisqa' prayer. He turned his back 
towards the people and faced the Qibla and asked Allah for rain. Then he turned his cloak inside out 
and led us in a two rak`at prayer and recited the Qur'an aloud in them."
Bukhari:1026 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim from his uncle who said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for rain and offered a two rak`at prayer and he put his cloak inside out."
Bukhari:1027 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim from his uncle who said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to the Musalla to offer the Istisqa' prayer, faced the Qibla and offered a two rak`at prayer and turned his cloak inside out." Narrated Abu Bakr, "The Prophet (ﷺ) put the right side of 
his cloak on his left side."
Bukhari:1028 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid Al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out towards the Musalla in order to offer the Istisqa' prayer and when he intended 
to invoke (Allah) or started invoking, he faced the Qibla and turned his cloak inside out.
Bukhari:1029 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A bedouin came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on a Friday  and said, "O Allah's Messenger ! The livestock, the offspring, and the people have perished." So, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised both his hands invoking Allah (for rain) and the people too raised their hands with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoking Allah (for rain). We had not left the mosque when it started raining. It rained till the next Friday when the same man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger! The travelers are compelled to postpone their journeys (because of excessive rain) and the roads are overflowed."
Bukhari:1030 The narrator Anas added that the Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands (during the invocation) to such an extent that the whiteness of his armpits was visible.
Bukhari:1031 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) never raised his hands for any invocation except for that of Istisqa' and he used to raise 
them so much that the whiteness of his armpits became visible. (Note: It may be that Anas did not see 
the Prophet (ﷺ) raising his hands, but it is narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to raise his hands for invocations 
other than Istisqa. See Hadith No. 807 & 808 and also see Hadith No. 612, Vol. 5).
Bukhari:1032 Narrated Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw the rain, he used to say, "O Allah! Let it be a strong fruitful rain."
Bukhari:1033 Narrated Anas bin Malik:In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) the people were afflicted with a (famine) year. While the 
Prophet was delivering the Khutba (sermon) on the pulpit on a Friday, a Bedouin stood up and said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The livestock are dying and the families (offspring) are hungry: please pray to 
Allah to bless us with rain." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised both his hands towards the sky and at that time 
there was not a trace of cloud in they sky. Then the clouds started gathering like mountains. Before he 
got down from the pulpit I saw rainwater trickling down his beard. It rained that day, the next day, the 
third day, the fourth day and till the next Friday, when the same Bedouin or some other person stood 
up (during the Friday Khutba) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The houses have collapsed and the 
livestock are drowned. Please invoke Allah for us." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised both his hands and said, 
"O Allah! Around us and not on us." Whichever side the Prophet (ﷺ) directed his hand, the clouds 
dispersed from there till a hole (in the clouds) was formed over Medina. The valley of Qanat remained 
flowing (with water) for one month and none, came from outside who didn't talk about the abundant 
rain.
Bukhari:1034 Narrated Anas:Whenever a strong wind blew, anxiety appeared on the face of the Prophet (fearing that wind might be 
a sign of Allah's wrath).
Bukhari:1035 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I was granted victory with As-Saba and the nation of 'Ad was destroyed by Ad- 
Dabur (westerly wind) .
Bukhari:1036 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour (Last Day) will not be established until (religious) knowledge will be 
taken away (by the death of religious learned men), earthquakes will be very frequent, time will pass 
quickly, afflictions will appear, murders will increase and money will overflow amongst you." (See 
Hadith No. 85 Vol 1).
Bukhari:1037 Narrated Ibn `Umar:(The Prophet) said, "O Allah! Bless our Sham and our Yemen." People said, "Our Najd as well." The 
Prophet again said, "O Allah! Bless our Sham and Yemen." They said again, "Our Najd as well." On 
that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will appear earthquakes and afflictions, and from there will come out the 
side of the head of Satan."
Bukhari:1038 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led the morning prayer in Al-Hudaibiya and it had rained the previous night. When 
the Prophet (p.b.u.h) had finished the prayer he faced the people and said, "Do you know what your 
Lord has said?" They replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." (The Prophet (ﷺ) said), "Allah says, 
'In this morning some of My worshipers remained as true believers and some became non-believers; 
he who said that it had rained with the blessing and mercy of Allah is the one who believes in Me and 
does not believe in star, but he who said it had rained because of such and such (star) is a disbeliever 
in Me and is a believer in star.' "
Bukhari:1039 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Keys of the unseen knowledge are five which nobody knows but Allah 
. . . nobody knows what will happen tomorrow; nobody knows what is in the womb; nobody knows 
what he will gain tomorrow; nobody knows at what place he will die; and nobody knows when it will 
rain."
Bukhari:1040 Narrated Abu Bakra:We were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when the sun eclipsed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up dragging his cloak till 
he entered the Mosque. He led us in a two-rak`at prayer till the sun (eclipse) had cleared. Then the 
Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of someone's death. So 
whenever you see these eclipses pray and invoke (Allah) till the eclipse is over."
Bukhari:1041 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death of someone from the 
people but they are two signs amongst the signs of Allah. When you see them stand up and pray."
Bukhari:1042 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death or life (i.e. birth) of 
someone but they are two signs amongst the signs of Allah. When you see them offer the prayer."
Bukhari:1043 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:"The sun eclipsed in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day when (his son) Ibrahim died. So the 
people said that the sun had eclipsed because of the death of Ibrahim. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The sun 
and the moon do not eclipse because of the death or life (i.e. birth) of someone. When you see the 
eclipse pray and invoke Allah."
Bukhari:1044 Narrated `Aisha:In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) the sun eclipsed, so he led the people in prayer, and stood 
up and performed a long Qiyam, then bowed for a long while. He stood up again and performed a 
long Qiyam but this time the period of standing was shorter than the first. He bowed again for a long 
time but shorter than the first one, then he prostrated and prolonged the prostration. He did the same in 
the second rak`a as he did in the first and then finished the prayer; by then the sun (eclipse) had 
cleared. He delivered the Khutba (sermon) and after praising and glorifying Allah he said, "The sun 
and the moon are two signs against the signs of Allah; they do not eclipse on the death or life of 
anyone. So when you see the eclipse, remember Allah and say Takbir, pray and give Sadaqa." The 
Prophet then said, "O followers of Muhammad! By Allah! There is none who has more ghaira (selfrespect) 
than Allah as He has forbidden that His slaves, male or female commit adultery (illegal 
sexual intercourse). O followers of Muhammad! By Allah! If you knew that which I know you would 
laugh little and weep much.
Bukhari:1045 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:"When the sun eclipsed in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) an announcement was made that a prayer 
was to be offered in congregation."
Bukhari:1046 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) the sun eclipsed and he went to the 
Mosque and the people aligned behind him. He said the Takbir (starting the prayer) and prolonged the 
recitation (from the Qur'an) and then said Takbir and performed a prolonged bowing; then he (lifted 
his head and) said, "Sami allahu liman hamidah" (Allah heard him who sent his praises to Him). He 
then did not prostrate but stood up and recited a prolonged recitation which was shorter than the first 
recitation. He again said Takbir and then bowed a prolonged bowing but shorter than the first one and 
then said, "Sami`a l-lahu Lyman hamidah Rabbana walak-lhamd, (Allah heard him who sent his 
praises to Him. O our Sustainer! All the praises are for You)" and then prostrated and did the same in 
the second rak`a; thus he completed four bowing and four prostrations. The sun (eclipse) had cleared 
before he finished the prayer. (After the prayer) he stood up, glorified and praised Allah as He 
deserved and then said, "The sun and the moon are two of the signs of Allah. They do not eclipse 
because of the death or the life (i.e. birth) of someone. When you see them make haste for the prayer." 
Narrated Az-Zuhri: I said to 'Urwa, "When the sun eclipsed at Medina your brother (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair) offered only a two-rak`at prayer like that of the morning (Fajr) prayer." 'Urwa replied, "Yes, 
for he missed the Prophet's tradition (concerning this matter)."
Bukhari:1047 Narrated Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) On the day when the sun Khasafat (eclipsed) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed; he 
stood up and said Takbir and recited a prolonged recitation, then he performed a prolonged bowing, 
then he raised his head and said, "Sami`a l-lahu Lyman Hamidah," and then remained standing and 
recited a prolonged recitation which was shorter than the first. Then he performed a prolonged bowing 
which was shorter than the first. Then he prostrated and prolonged the prostration and he did the same 
in the second rak`a as in the first and then finished the prayer with Taslim. By that time the sun 
(eclipse) had cleared He addressed the people and said, "The sun and the moon are two of the signs of 
Allah; they do not eclipse (Yakhsifan) because of the death or the life (i.e. birth) of someone. So when 
you see them make haste for the prayer."
Bukhari:1048 Narrated Abu Bakra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "The sun and the moon are two signs amongst the signs of Allah and they do not 
eclipse because of the death of someone but Allah frightens His devotees with them."
Bukhari:1049 Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman:A Jewess came to ask `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet) about something. She said to her, "May Allah 
give you refuge from the punishment of the grave." So `Aisha ' asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "Would the 
people be punished in their graves?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after seeking refuge with Allah from the 
punishment of the grave (and thus replied in the affirmative). Then one day, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode to go 
to some place but the sun eclipsed. He returned in the forenoon and passed through the rear of the 
dwellings (of his wives) and stood for the (eclipse) prayer, and the people stood behind him. He stood 
up for a long period and then performed a prolonged bowing which was shorter than the first bowing. 
Then he raised his head and prostrated. Then he stood up (for the second rak`a) for a long while but 
the standing was shorter than that of the first rak`a. Then he performed a prolonged bowing which was 
shorter than the first one. Then he raised his head and prostrated. Then he stood up for a long time but 
shorter than the first. Then he performed a prolonged bowing but shorter than the first. Then he raised 
his head and prostrated and finished the prayer and (then delivered the sermon and) said as much as 
Allah wished. And then he ordered the people to seek refuge with Allah from the punishment of the 
grave.
Bukhari:1050 Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman:A Jewess came to ask `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet) about something. She said to her, "May Allah 
give you refuge from the punishment of the grave." So `Aisha ' asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "Would the 
people be punished in their graves?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after seeking refuge with Allah from the 
punishment of the grave (and thus replied in the affirmative). Then one day, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode to go 
to some place but the sun eclipsed. He returned in the forenoon and passed through the rear of the 
dwellings (of his wives) and stood for the (eclipse) prayer, and the people stood behind him. He stood 
up for a long period and then performed a prolonged bowing which was shorter than the first bowing. 
Then he raised his head and prostrated. Then he stood up (for the second rak`a) for a long while but 
the standing was shorter than that of the first rak`a. Then he performed a prolonged bowing which was 
shorter than the first one. Then he raised his head and prostrated. Then he stood up for a long time but 
shorter than the first. Then he performed a prolonged bowing but shorter than the first. Then he raised 
his head and prostrated and finished the prayer and (then delivered the sermon and) said as much as 
Allah wished. And then he ordered the people to seek refuge with Allah from the punishment of the 
grave.
Bukhari:1051 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:When the sun eclipsed in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and an announcement was made that the 
prayer was to be held in congregation. The Prophet (ﷺ) performed two bowing in one rak`a. Then he stood 
up and performed two bowing in one rak`a. Then he sat down and finished the prayer; and by then the 
(eclipse) had cleared `Aisha said, "I had never performed such a long prostration."
Bukhari:1052 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The sun eclipsed in the lifetime of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) . Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the eclipse prayer 
and stood for a long period equal to the period in which one could recite Surat-al-Baqara. Then he 
bowed for a long time and then stood up for a long period which was shorter than that of the first 
standing, then bowed again for a long time but for a shorter period than the first; then he prostrated 
twice and then stood up for a long period which was shorter than that of the first standing; then he 
bowed for a long time which was shorter than the previous one, and then he raised his head and stood 
up for a long period which was shorter than the first standing, then he bowed for a long time which 
was shorter than the first bowing, and then prostrated (twice) and finished the prayer. By then, the sun 
(eclipse) had cleared. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "The sun and the moon are two of the signs of Allah. 
They eclipse neither because of the death of somebody nor because of his life (i.e. birth). So when you 
see them, remember Allah." The people say, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We saw you taking something from 
your place and then we saw you retreating." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I saw Paradise and stretched my 
hands towards a bunch (of its fruits) and had I taken it, you would have eaten from it as long as the 
world remains. I also saw the Hell-fire and I had never seen such a horrible sight. I saw that most of 
the inhabitants were women." The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why is it so?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied, "Because of their ungratefulness." It was asked whether they are ungrateful to Allah. The 
Prophet said, "They are ungrateful to their companions of life (husbands) and ungrateful to good 
deeds. If you are benevolent to one of them throughout the life and if she sees anything (undesirable) 
in you, she will say, 'I have never had any good from you.' "
Bukhari:1053 Narrated Fatima bint Al-Mundhir:Asma' bint Al Bakr said, "I came to `Aisha the wife of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) during the solar eclipse. 
The people were standing and offering the prayer and she was also praying too. I asked her, 'What has 
happened to the people?' She pointed out with her hand towards the sky and said, 'Subhan-Allah'. I 
said, 'Is there a sign?' She pointed out in the affirmative." Asma' further said, "I too then stood up for 
the prayer till I fainted and then poured water on my head. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had finished his 
prayer, he thanked and praised Allah and said, 'I have seen at this place of mine what I have never 
seen even Paradise and Hell. No doubt, it has been inspired to me that you will be put to trial in the 
graves like or nearly like the trial of (Masih) Ad-Dajjal. (I do not know which one of the two Asma' 
said.) (The angels) will come to everyone of you and will ask what do you know about this man (i.e. 
Muhammad). The believer or a firm believer (I do not know which word Asma' said) will reply, 'He is 
Muhammad, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) who came to us with clear evidences and guidance, so we 
accepted his teachings, believed and followed him.' The angels will then say to him, 'Sleep peacefully 
as we knew surely that you were a firm believer.' The hypocrite or doubtful person (I do not know 
which word Asma' said) will say, 'I do not know. I heard the people saying something so I said it (the 
same).' "
Bukhari:1054 Narrated Asma:No doubt the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered people to manumit slaves during the solar eclipse.
Bukhari:1055 Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman:A Jewess came to `Aisha to ask her about something and then she said, "May Allah give you refuge 
from the punishment of the grave." So `Aisha asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Would the people be punished 
in their graves?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked Allah's refuge from the punishment of the grave (indicating an 
affirmative reply). Then one day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode (to leave for some place) but the sun eclipsed. 
He returned on the forenoon and passed through the rear of the dwellings (of his wives) and stood up 
and started offering the (eclipse) prayer and the people stood behind him. He stood for a long period 
and then performed a long bowing and then stood straight for a long period which was shorter than 
that of the first standing, then he performed a prolonged bowing which was shorter than the first 
bowing, then he raised his head and prostrated for a long time and then stood up (for the second rak`a) 
for a long while, but the standing was shorter than the standing of the first rak`a. Then he performed a 
prolonged bowing which was shorter than that of the first one. He then stood up for a long time but 
shorter than the first, then again performed a long bowing which was shorter than the first and then 
prostrated for a shorter while than that of the first prostration. Then he finished the prayer and 
delivered the sermon and) said what Allah wished; and ordered the people to seek refuge with Allah 
from the punishment of the grave.
Bukhari:1056 Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman:A Jewess came to `Aisha to ask her about something and then she said, "May Allah give you refuge 
from the punishment of the grave." So `Aisha asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Would the people be punished 
in their graves?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked Allah's refuge from the punishment of the grave (indicating an 
affirmative reply). Then one day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode (to leave for some place) but the sun eclipsed. 
He returned on the forenoon and passed through the rear of the dwellings (of his wives) and stood up 
and started offering the (eclipse) prayer and the people stood behind him. He stood for a long period 
and then performed a long bowing and then stood straight for a long period which was shorter than 
that of the first standing, then he performed a prolonged bowing which was shorter than the first 
bowing, then he raised his head and prostrated for a long time and then stood up (for the second rak`a) 
for a long while, but the standing was shorter than the standing of the first rak`a. Then he performed a 
prolonged bowing which was shorter than that of the first one. He then stood up for a long time but 
shorter than the first, then again performed a long bowing which was shorter than the first and then 
prostrated for a shorter while than that of the first prostration. Then he finished the prayer and 
delivered the sermon and) said what Allah wished; and ordered the people to seek refuge with Allah 
from the punishment of the grave.
Bukhari:1057 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of someone's death or life but they 
are two signs amongst the signs of Allah, so pray whenever you see them."
Bukhari:1058 Narrated `Aisha:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) the sun eclipsed and the Prophet (p.b.u.h) stood up to offer the prayer 
with the people and recited a long recitation, then he performed a prolonged bowing, and then lifted 
his head and recited a prolonged recitation which was shorter than the first. Then he performed a 
prolonged bowing which was shorter than the first and then lifted his head and performed two 
prostrations. He then stood up for the second rak`a and offered it like the first. Then he stood up and 
said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of someone's life or death but they are two signs 
amongst the signs of Allah which He shows to His worshipers. So whenever you see them, make haste 
for the prayer."
Bukhari:1059 Narrated Abu Musa:The sun eclipsed and the Prophet (ﷺ) got up, being afraid that it might be the Hour (i.e. Day of Judgment). 
He went to the Mosque and offered the prayer with the longest Qiyam, bowing and prostration that I 
had ever seen him doing. Then he said, "These signs which Allah sends do not occur because of the 
life or death of somebody, but Allah makes His worshipers afraid by them. So when you see anything 
thereof, proceed to remember Allah, invoke Him and ask for His forgiveness."
Bukhari:1060 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:On the day of Ibrahim's death, the sun eclipsed and the people said that the eclipse was due to the 
death of Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon are two signs 
amongst the signs of Allah. They do not eclipse because of someone's death or life. So when you see 
them, invoke Allah and pray till the eclipse is clear."
Bukhari:1061 And this was narrated by Asma' who said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the eclipse prayer and by then the sun (eclipse) had cleared. Then he delivered the Khutba (religious talk) and praised Allah as He deserved and then said Amma ba'du."
Bukhari:1062 Narrated Abu Bakra:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) the sun eclipsed and then he offered a two rak`at prayer.
Bukhari:1063 Narrated Abu Bakra:In the lifetime of the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) the sun eclipsed and he went out dragging his clothes 
till he reached the Mosque. The people gathered around him and he led them and offered two rak`at. 
When the sun (eclipse) cleared, he said, "The sun and the moon are two signs amongst the signs of 
Allah; they do not eclipse because of the death of someone, and so when an eclipse occurs, pray and 
invoke Allah till the eclipse is over." It happened that a son of the Prophet (ﷺ) called Ibrahim died on that 
day and the people were talking about that (saying that the eclipse was caused by his death).
Bukhari:1064 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us and performed four bowing in two rak`at during the solar eclipse and the first rak`a 
was longer.
Bukhari:1065 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) recited (the Qur'an) aloud during the eclipse prayer and when he had finished 
the eclipse prayer he said the Takbir and bowed. When he stood straight from bowing he would say 
"Sami 'allahu liman hamidah Rabbana wa laka l-hamd." And he would again start reciting. In the 
eclipse prayer there are four bowing and four prostrations in two rak`at. Al-Auza'i and others said that 
they had heard Az-Zuhri from 'Urwa from `Aisha saying, "In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the sun 
eclipsed, and he made a person to announce: 'Prayer in congregation.' He led the prayer and performed 
four bowing and four prostrations in two rak`at." Narrated Al-Walid that `Abdur-Rahman bin Namir 
had informed him that he had heard the same. Ibn Shihab heard the same. Az-Zuhri said, "I asked 
('Urwa), 'What did your brother `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair do? He prayed two rak`at (of the eclipse 
prayer) like the morning prayer, when he offered the (eclipse) prayer in Medina.' 'Urwa replied that he 
had missed (i.e. did not pray according to) the Prophet's tradition." Sulaiman bin Kathir and Sufyan 
bin Husain narrated from Az-Zuhri that the prayer for the eclipse used to be offered with loud 
recitation.
Bukhari:1066 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) recited (the Qur'an) aloud during the eclipse prayer and when he had finished 
the eclipse prayer he said the Takbir and bowed. When he stood straight from bowing he would say 
"Sami 'allahu liman hamidah Rabbana wa laka l-hamd." And he would again start reciting. In the 
eclipse prayer there are four bowing and four prostrations in two rak`at. Al-Auza'i and others said that 
they had heard Az-Zuhri from 'Urwa from `Aisha saying, "In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the sun 
eclipsed, and he made a person to announce: 'Prayer in congregation.' He led the prayer and performed 
four bowing and four prostrations in two rak`at." Narrated Al-Walid that `Abdur-Rahman bin Namir 
had informed him that he had heard the same. Ibn Shihab heard the same. Az-Zuhri said, "I asked 
('Urwa), 'What did your brother `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair do? He prayed two rak`at (of the eclipse 
prayer) like the morning prayer, when he offered the (eclipse) prayer in Medina.' 'Urwa replied that he 
had missed (i.e. did not pray according to) the Prophet's tradition." Sulaiman bin Kathir and Sufyan 
bin Husain narrated from Az-Zuhri that the prayer for the eclipse used to be offered with loud 
recitation.
Bukhari:1067 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Suratan-Najm (103) at Mecca and prostrated while reciting it and those who were 
with him did the same except an old man who took a handful of small stones or earth and lifted it to 
his forehead and said, "This is sufficient for me." Later on, I saw him killed as a non-believer.
Bukhari:1068 Narrated Abu Huraira:On Fridays the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Alif Lam Mim Tanzil-As-Sajda (in the first rak`a) and Hal 
ata `alal-insani i.e. Surat ad-Dahr (LXXVI) (in the second rak`a), in the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:1069 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The prostration of Sa`d is not a compulsory one but I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrating while reciting it.
Bukhari:1070 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat-an-Najm (53) and prostrated while reciting it and all the people prostrated and a man amongst the people took a handful of stones or earth and raised it to his face and said, "This is sufficient for me. Later on I saw him killed as a non-believer."
Bukhari:1071 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) I prostrated while reciting An-Najm and with him prostrated the Muslims, the pagans, the 
jinns, and all human beings.
Bukhari:1072 Narrated `Ata' bin Yasar:I asked Zaid bin Thabit about prostration on which he said that he had recited An-Najm before the 
Prophet, yet he (the Prophet) had not performed a prostration.
Bukhari:1073 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:I recited An-Najm before the Prophet, yet he did not perform a prostration.
Bukhari:1074 Narrated Abu Salma:I saw Abu Huraira reciting Idha-Sama' un-Shaqqat and he prostrated during its recitation. I asked Abu 
Huraira, "Didn't I see you prostrating?" Abu Huraira said, "Had I not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrating, I 
would not have prostrated."
Bukhari:1075 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) recited a Sura that contained the prostration he would prostrate and we would do 
the same and some of us (because of the heavy rush) could not find a place for prostration.
Bukhari:1076 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat As-Sajda and we were with him, he would prostrate and we also 
would prostrate with him and some of us (because of the heavy rush) would not find a place (for our 
foreheads) to prostrate on.
Bukhari:1077 Narrated Rabi`a:`Umar bin Al-Khattab recited Surat-an-Nahl on a Friday on the pulpit and when he reached the verse 
of Sajda he got down from the pulpit and prostrated and the people also prostrated. The next Friday 
`Umar bin Al-Khattab recited the same Sura and when he reached the verse of Sajda he said, "O 
people! When we recite the verses of Sajda (during the sermon) whoever prostrates does the right 
thing, yet it is no sin for the one who does not prostrate." And `Umar did not prostrate (that day). 
Added Ibn `Umar "Allah has not made the prostration of recitation compulsory but if we wish we can 
do it."
Bukhari:1078 Narrated Abu Rafi`:I offered the `Isha' prayer behind Abu Huraira and he recited Idhas-Sama' Un-Shaqqat, and prostrated. 
I said, "What is this?" Abu Huraira said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim and I will do the same till I 
meet him."
Bukhari:1079 Narrated Ibn `Umar.:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Sura which contained the prostration of recitation he used to 
prostrate and then, we, too, would prostrate and some of us did not find a place for prostration.
Bukhari:1080 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once stayed for nineteen days and prayed shortened prayers. So when we travel led (and 
stayed) for nineteen days, we used to shorten the prayer but if we traveled (and stayed) for a longer 
period we used to offer the full prayer.
Bukhari:1081 Narrated Yahya bin 'Is-haq:I heard Anas saying, "We traveled with the Prophet (ﷺ) from Medina to Mecca and offered two rak`at (for 
every prayer) till we returned to Medina." I said, "Did you stay for a while in Mecca?" He replied, 
"We stayed in Mecca for ten days."
Bukhari:1082 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I offered the prayer with the Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar at Mina and it was of two rak`at. `Uthman 
in the early days of his caliphate did the same, but later on he started praying the full prayer.
Bukhari:1083 Narrated Haritha bin Wahab:The Prophet (ﷺ) I led us in the prayer at Mina during the peace period by offering two rak`at.
Bukhari:1084 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Yazid:We offered a four rak`at prayer at Mina behind Ibn `Affan . `Abdullah bin Mas`ud was informed 
about it. He said sadly, "Truly to Allah we belong and truly to Him we shall return." And added, "I 
prayed two rak`at with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Mina and similarly with Abu Bakr and with `Umar (during 
their caliphates)." He further said, "May I be lucky enough to have two of the four rak`at accepted (by 
Allah)."
Bukhari:1085 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions reached Mecca in the morning of the 4th Dhul-Hijja reciting Talbiya 
(O Allah! We are obedient to your orders, we respond 4 to your call) . . . intending to perform Hajj. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions to assume the lhram for Umra instead of Hajj, excepting those 
who had Hadi (sacrifice) with them.
Bukhari:1086 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel for more than three days except with a Dhi-Mahram 
(i.e. a male with whom she cannot marry at all, e.g. her brother, father, grandfather, etc.) or her own 
husband.)"
Bukhari:1087 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel for more than three days except with a Dhi-Mahram."
Bukhari:1088 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day 
to travel for one day and night except with a Mahram."
Bukhari:1089 Narrated Anas bin Malik:offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer with the Prophet (p.b.u.h) at Medina and two rak`at at Dhul-Hulaifa. 
(i.e. shortened the `Asr prayer).
Bukhari:1090 Narrated `Aisha:"When the prayers were first enjoined they were of two rak`at each. Later the prayer in a journey was 
kept as it was but the prayers for non-travelers were completed." Az-Zuhri said, "I asked `Urwa what 
made Aisha pray the full prayers (in journey)." He replied, "She did the same as `Uthman did."
Bukhari:1091 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:"I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delaying the Maghrib prayer till he offered it along with the `Isha' prayer 
whenever he was in a hurry during the journey." Salim narrated, "Ibn `Umar used to do the same 
whenever he was in a hurry during the journey." And Salim added, "Ibn `Umar used to pray the 
Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together in Al-Muzdalifa." Salim said, "Ibn `Umar delayed the Maghrib 
prayer because at that time he heard the news of the death of his wife Safiya bint Abi `Ubaid. I said to 
him, 'The prayer (is due).' He said, 'Go on.' Again I said, 'The prayer (is due).' He said, 'Go on,' till we 
covered two or three miles. Then he got down, prayed and said, 'I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying in this way, 
whenever he was in a hurry during the journey.' `Abdullah (bin `Umar) added, "Whenever the 
Prophet was in a hurry, he used to delay the Maghrib prayer and then offer three rak`at (of the 
Maghrib) and perform Taslim, and after waiting for a short while, Iqama used to be pronounced for 
the `Isha' prayer when he would offer two rak`at and perform Taslim. He would never offer any 
optional prayer till the middle of the night (when he used to pray the Tahajjud)."
Bukhari:1092 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:"I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delaying the Maghrib prayer till he offered it along with the `Isha' prayer 
whenever he was in a hurry during the journey." Salim narrated, "Ibn `Umar used to do the same 
whenever he was in a hurry during the journey." And Salim added, "Ibn `Umar used to pray the 
Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together in Al-Muzdalifa." Salim said, "Ibn `Umar delayed the Maghrib 
prayer because at that time he heard the news of the death of his wife Safiya bint Abi `Ubaid. I said to 
him, 'The prayer (is due).' He said, 'Go on.' Again I said, 'The prayer (is due).' He said, 'Go on,' till we 
covered two or three miles. Then he got down, prayed and said, 'I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying in this way, 
whenever he was in a hurry during the journey.' `Abdullah (bin `Umar) added, "Whenever the 
Prophet was in a hurry, he used to delay the Maghrib prayer and then offer three rak`at (of the 
Maghrib) and perform Taslim, and after waiting for a short while, Iqama used to be pronounced for 
the `Isha' prayer when he would offer two rak`at and perform Taslim. He would never offer any 
optional prayer till the middle of the night (when he used to pray the Tahajjud)."
Bukhari:1093 Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Amir from his father who said:I saw the Prophet (p.b.u.h) offering the prayer on his mount (Rahila) whatever direction it took.
Bukhari:1094 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Nawafil, while riding, facing a direction other than that of the Qibla.
Bukhari:1095 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar (while on a journey) used to offer the prayer and the witr on his mount (Rahila). He said 
that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so.
Bukhari:1096 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:On traveling, `Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the prayer on his Mount by signs whatever direction 
it took. `Abdullah said that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so.
Bukhari:1097 Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on his Mount praying Nawafil by nodding his head, whatever direction he faced, but 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never did the same in offering the compulsory prayers.
Bukhari:1098 Narrated Salim:At night 
`Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the prayer on the back of his animal during the journey and never 
cared about the direction he faced. Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the optional prayer 
on the back of his Mount facing any direction and also used to pray the witr on it but never offered the 
compulsory prayer on it."
Bukhari:1099 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray (the Nawafil) on his Mount facing east and whenever he wanted to offer the 
compulsory prayer, he used to dismount and face the Qibla.
Bukhari:1100 Narrated Anas bin Seereen:We went to receive Anas bin Malik when he returned from Sham and met him at a place called 'Ainat- 
Tamr. I saw him praying riding the donkey, with his face to this direction, i.e. to the left of the 
Qibla. I said to him, "I have seen you offering the prayer in a direction other than that of the Qibla." 
He replied, "If I had not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) doing it, I would not have done it."
Bukhari:1101 Narrated Hafs bin `Asim:Ibn `Umar went on a journey and said, "I accompanied the Prophet (ﷺ) and he did not offer optional 
prayers during the journey, and Allah says: 'Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example to 
follow.' " (33.21)
Bukhari:1102 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I accompanied Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he never offered more than two rak`at during the journey. Abu 
Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman used to do the same.
Bukhari:1103 Narrated Ibn Abu Laila:Only Um Hani told us that she had seen the Prophet (p.b.u.h) offering the Duha (forenoon prayer). 
She said, "On the day of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) took a bath in my house and offered eight 
rak`at. I never saw him praying such a light prayer but he performed perfect prostration and bowing.
Bukhari:1104 Narrated `Abdullah bin Amir that his father had told him that he had seen the Prophet (p.b.u.h) 
praying Nawafil at night on the back of his Mount on a journey, facing whatever direction it took.
Bukhari:1105 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray the Nawafil on the back of his Mount (carriage) by 
signs facing any direction." Ibn `Umar used to do the same.
Bukhari:1106 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together whenever he was in a hurry on a journey.
Bukhari:1107 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers together on journeys, and also used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together. Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers together on journeys.
Bukhari:1108 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer these two prayers together on journeys i.e. the Maghrib and the `Isha'.
Bukhari:1109 Narrated Az-Zuhri:Salim told me, "`Abdullah bin `Umar said, 'I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delaying the Maghrib prayer till he 
offered it along with the `Isha prayer whenever he was in a hurry during the journey.' " Salim said, 
"Abdullah bin `Umar used to do the same whenever he was in a hurry during the journey. After 
making the call for Iqama, for the Maghrib prayer he used to offer three rak`at and then perform 
Taslim. After waiting for a short while, he would pronounce the Iqama for the `Isha' prayer and offer 
two rak`at and perform Taslim. He never prayed any Nawafil in between the two prayers or after the 
`Isha' prayers till he got up in the middle of the night (for Tahajjud prayer)."
Bukhari:1110 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started a journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayer till the time of 
`Asr and then offer them together; and if the sun declined (at noon) he used to offer the Zuhr prayer 
and then ride (for the journey).
Bukhari:1111 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started the journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayer till the time 
for the `Asr prayer and then he would dismount and pray them together; and whenever the sun 
declined before he started the journey he used to offer the Zuhr prayer and then ride (for the journey).
Bukhari:1112 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started on a journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayers till the time for the 'Asr prayer and then he would dismount and offer them together; and whenever the sun declined before he started on a journey he used to offer the Zuhr prayers and then ride (for journey).
Bukhari:1113 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed in his house while sitting during his illness and the people prayed behind him 
standing and he pointed to them to sit down. When he had finished the prayer, he said, "The Imam is 
to be followed and so when he bows you should bow; and when he lifts his head you should also do 
the same."
Bukhari:1114 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) fell down from a horse and his right side was either injured or scratched, so 
we went to inquire about his health. The time for the prayer became due and he offered the prayer 
while sitting and we prayed while standing. He said, "The Imam is to be followed; so if he says 
Takbir, you should also say Takbir, and if he bows you should also bow; and when he lifts his head 
you should also do the same and if he says: Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah (Allah hears whoever sends 
his praises to Him) you should say: Rabbana walakal-Hamd (O our Lord! All the praises are for 
You.") (See Hadith No. 656 Vol. 1).
Bukhari:1115 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:(who had piles) I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the praying of a man while sitting. He said, "If he prays 
while standing it is better and he who prays while sitting gets half the reward of that who prays 
standing; and whoever prays while Lying gets half the reward of that who prays while sitting."
Bukhari:1116 Narrated `Abdullah bin Buraida:`Imran bin Husain had piles. Once Abu Ma mar narrated from `Imran bin Husain had said, "I asked 
the Prophet (p.b.u.h) about the prayer of a person while sitting. He said, 'It is better for one to pray 
standing; and whoever prays sitting gets half the reward of that who prays while standing; and 
whoever prays while Lying gets half the reward of that who prays while sitting.' "
Bukhari:1117 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:had piles, so I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the prayer. He said, "Pray while standing and if you can't, pray 
while sitting and if you cannot do even that, then pray Lying on your side."
Bukhari:1118 Narrated Aisha:(the mother of the faithful believers) I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offering the night prayer while 
sitting except in his old age and then he used to recite while sitting and whenever he wanted to bow he 
would get up and recite thirty or forty verses (while standing) and then bow.
Bukhari:1119 Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of the faithful believers) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (in his last days) used to pray sitting. He would 
recite while sitting, and when thirty or forty verses remained from the recitation he would get up and 
recite them while standing and then he would bow and prostrate. He used to do the same in the second 
rak`a. After finishing the Prayer he used to look at me and if I was awake he would talk to me and if I 
was asleep, he would lie down.
Bukhari:1120 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) got up at night to offer the Tahajjud prayer, he used to say: Allahumma lakal-hamd. 
Anta qaiyyimus-samawati wal-ard wa man fihinna. Walakal-hamd, Laka mulkus-samawati wal-ard wa 
man fihinna. Walakal-hamd, anta nurus-samawati wal-ard. Wa lakal-hamd, anta-l-haq wa wa'duka-lhaq, 
wa liqa'uka Haq, wa qauluka Haq, wal-jannatu Han wan-naru Haq wannabiyuna Haq. Wa 
Muhammadun, sallal-lahu'alaihi wasallam, Haq, was-sa'atu Haq. Allahumma aslamtu Laka wabika 
amantu, wa 'Alaika tawakkaltu, wa ilaika anabtu wa bika khasamtu, wa ilaika hakamtu faghfir li ma 
qaddamtu wama akh-khartu wama as-rartu wama'a lantu, anta-l-muqaddim wa anta-l-mu akh-khir, la 
ilaha illa anta (or la ilaha ghairuka). (O Allah! All the praises are for you, You are the Holder of the 
Heavens and the Earth, And whatever is in them. All the praises are for You; You have the possession 
of the Heavens and the Earth And whatever is in them. All the praises are for You; You are the Light 
of the Heavens and the Earth And all the praises are for You; You are the King of the Heavens and the 
Earth; And all the praises are for You; You are the Truth and Your Promise is the truth, And to meet 
You is true, Your Word is the truth And Paradise is true And Hell is true And all the Prophets (Peace 
be upon them) are true; And Muhammad is true, And the Day of Resurrection is true. O Allah ! I 
surrender (my will) to You; I believe in You and depend on You. And repent to You, And with Your 
help I argue (with my opponents, the non-believers) And I take You as a judge (to judge between us). 
Please forgive me my previous And future sins; And whatever I concealed or revealed And You are 
the One who make (some people) forward And (some) backward. There is none to be worshipped but 
you . Sufyan said that `Abdul Karim Abu Umaiya added to the above, 'Wala haula Wala quwata illa 
billah' (There is neither might nor power except with Allah).
Bukhari:1121 Narrated Salim's father:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) whosoever saw a dream would narrate it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I had a wish 
of seeing a dream to narrate it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) I was a grown up boy and used to sleep in 
the Mosque in the lifetime of the Prophet. I saw in the dream that two angels caught hold of me and 
took me to the Fire which was built all round like a built well and had two poles in it and the people in 
it were known to me. I started saying, "I seek refuge with Allah from the Fire." Then I met another 
angel who told me not to be afraid. I narrated the dream to Hafsa who told it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The 
Prophet said, "Abdullah is a good man. I wish he prayed Tahajjud." After that `Abdullah (i.e. Salim's 
father) used to sleep but a little at night.
Bukhari:1122 Narrated Salim's father:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) whosoever saw a dream would narrate it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I had a wish 
of seeing a dream to narrate it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) I was a grown up boy and used to sleep in 
the Mosque in the lifetime of the Prophet. I saw in the dream that two angels caught hold of me and 
took me to the Fire which was built all round like a built well and had two poles in it and the people in 
it were known to me. I started saying, "I seek refuge with Allah from the Fire." Then I met another 
angel who told me not to be afraid. I narrated the dream to Hafsa who told it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The 
Prophet said, "Abdullah is a good man. I wish he prayed Tahajjud." After that `Abdullah (i.e. Salim's 
father) used to sleep but a little at night.
Bukhari:1123 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer eleven rak`at and that was his prayer. He used to prolong the prostration 
to such an extent that one could recite fifty verses (of the Qur'an) before he would lift his head. He 
used to pray two rak`at (Sunna) before the Fajr prayer and then used to lie down on his right side till 
the call-maker came and informed him about the prayer.
Bukhari:1124 Narrated Jundab:The Prophet (ﷺ) became sick and did not get up (for Tahajjud prayer) for a night or two.
Bukhari:1125 Narrated Jundab bin `Abdullah:Gabriel did not come to the Prophet (for some time) and so one of the Quraish women said, "His 
Satan has deserted him." So came the Divine Revelation: "By the forenoon And by the night When it 
is still! Your Lord (O Muhammad) has neither Forsaken you Nor hated you." (93.1-3)
Bukhari:1126 Narrated Um Salama:One night the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and said, "Subhan Allah! How many afflictions Allah has revealed 
tonight and how many treasures have been sent down (disclosed). Go and wake the sleeping lady 
occupants of these dwellings up (for prayers), perhaps a well dressed in this world may be naked in 
the Hereafter."
Bukhari:1127 Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:One night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked, "Won't you 
pray (at night)?" I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Our souls are in the hands of Allah and if He wants us to 
get up He will make us get up." When I said that, he left us without saying anything and I heard that 
he was hitting his thigh and saying, "But man is more quarrelsome than anything." (18.54)
Bukhari:1128 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to give up a good deed, although he loved to do it, for fear that people might act 
on it and it might be made compulsory for them. The Prophet (ﷺ) never prayed the Duha prayer, but I 
offer it.
Bukhari:1129 Narrated `Aisha the mother of the faithful believers:One night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the prayer in the Mosque and the people followed him. The next 
night he also offered the prayer and too many people gathered. On the third and the fourth nights more 
people gathered, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not come out to them. In the morning he said, "I saw what 
you were doing and nothing but the fear that it (i.e. the prayer) might be enjoined on you, stopped me 
from coming to you." And that happened in the month of Ramadan.
Bukhari:1130 Narrated Al-Mughira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stand (in the prayer) or pray till both his feet or legs swelled. He was asked why 
(he offered such an unbearable prayer) and he said, "should I not be a thankful slave."
Bukhari:1131 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told me, "The most beloved prayer to Allah is that of David and the most beloved 
fasts to Allah are those of David. He used to sleep for half of the night and then pray for one third of 
the night and again sleep for its sixth part and used to fast on alternate days."
Bukhari:1132 Narrated Masruq:I asked `Aisha which deed was most loved by the Prophet. She said, "A deed done continuously." I 
further asked, "When did he used to get up (in the night for the prayer)." She said, "He used to get up 
on hearing the crowing of a cock."
Bukhari:1133 Narrated `Aisha:In my house he (Prophet (p.b.u.h) ) never passed the last hours of the night but sleeping.
Bukhari:1134 Narrated Qatada:Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (p.b.u.h) and Zaid bin Thabit took their Suhur together. When they 
finished it, the Prophet (ﷺ) stood for the (Fajr) prayer and offered it." We asked Anas, "What was the 
interval between their finishing the Suhur and the starting of the morning prayer?" Anas replied, "It 
was equal to the time taken by a person in reciting fifty verses of the Qur'an."
Bukhari:1135 Narrated Abu-Wail:`Abdullah said, "One night I offered the Tahajjud prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he kept on standing till 
an ill-thought came to me." We said, "What was the ill-thought?" He said, "It was to sit down and 
leave the Prophet (standing)."
Bukhari:1136 Narrated Hudhaifa:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) got up for Tahajjud prayer he used to clean his mouth (and teeth) with Siwak.
Bukhari:1137 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How is the prayer of the night?" He said, "Two rak`at followed by 
two rak`at and so on, and when you apprehend the approaching dawn, offer one rak`a as witr."
Bukhari:1138 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be of thirteen rak`at, i.e. of the night prayer.
Bukhari:1139 Narrated Masruq:I asked Aisha about the night prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she said, "It was seven, nine or eleven 
rak`at besides the two rak`at of the Fajr prayer (i.e. Sunna). "
Bukhari:1140 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to offer thirteen rak`at of the night prayer and that included the witr and 
two rak`at (Sunna) of the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:1141 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Sometimes Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would not fast (for so many days) that we thought that he would not fast 
that month and he sometimes used to fast (for so many days) that we thought he would not leave 
fasting throughout that month and (as regards his prayer and sleep at night), if you wanted to see him 
praying at night, you could see him praying and if you wanted to see him sleeping, you could see him 
sleeping.
Bukhari:1142 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Satan puts three knots at the back of the head of any of you if he is asleep. On 
every knot he reads and exhales the following words, 'The night is long, so stay asleep.' When one 
wakes up and remembers Allah, one knot is undone; and when one performs ablution, the second knot 
is undone, and when one prays the third knot is undone and one gets up energetic with a good heart in 
the morning; otherwise one gets up lazy and with a mischievous heart."
Bukhari:1143 Narrated Samura bin Jundab:The Prophet (ﷺ) said in his narration of a dream that he saw, "He whose head was being crushed with a 
stone was one who learnt the Qur'an but never acted on it, and slept ignoring the compulsory prayers."
Bukhari:1144 Narrated `Abdullah:A person was mentioned before the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and he was told that he had kept on sleeping till 
morning and had not got up for the prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Satan urinated in his ears."
Bukhari:1145 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Our Lord, the Blessed, the Superior, comes every night down on the 
nearest Heaven to us when the last third of the night remains, saying: "Is there anyone to invoke Me, 
so that I may respond to invocation? Is there anyone to ask Me, so that I may grant him his request? Is 
there anyone seeking My forgiveness, so that I may forgive him?"
Bukhari:1146 Narrated Al-Aswad:I asked `Aisha "How is the night prayer of the Prophet?" She replied, "He used to sleep early at night, 
and get up in its last part to pray, and then return to his bed. When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the 
Adhan, he would get up. If he was in need of a bath he would take it; otherwise he would perform 
ablution and then go out (for the prayer)."
Bukhari:1147 Narrated Abu Salma bin `Abdur Rahman:I asked `Aisha, "How is the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during the month of Ramadan." She said, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never exceeded eleven rak`at in Ramadan or in other months; he used to offer four 
rak`at-- do not ask me about their beauty and length, then four rak`at, do not ask me about their beauty 
and length, and then three rak`at." Aisha further said, "I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you sleep before 
offering the witr prayer?' He replied, 'O `Aisha! My eyes sleep but my heart remains awake'!"
Bukhari:1148 Narrated `Aisha:I did not see the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting (the Qur'an) in the night prayer while sitting except when he became 
old; when he used to recite while sitting, and when thirty or forty verses remained from the Sura, he 
would get up and recite them and then bow.
Bukhari:1149 Narrated Abu Huraira:At the time of the Fajr prayer the Prophet (ﷺ) asked Bilal, "Tell me of the best deed you did after 
embracing Islam, for I heard your footsteps in front of me in Paradise." Bilal replied, "I did not do 
anything worth mentioning except that whenever I performed ablution during the day or night, I 
prayed after that ablution as much as was written for me."
Bukhari:1150 Narrated Anas bin MalikOnce the Prophet (p.b.u.h) entered the Mosque and saw a rope hanging 
     in between its two pillars. He said, "What is this rope?" The people 
     said, "This rope is for Zainab who, when she feels tired, holds it (to
     keep standing for the prayer.)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't use it. 
     Remove the rope. You should pray as long as you feel active, and when 
     you get tired, sit down."
Bukhari:1151 Narrated 'Aisha:A woman from the tribe of Bani Asad was sitting with me and Allah's 
     Apostle (p.b.u.h) came to my house and said, "Who is this?" I said, 
     "(She is) So and so. She does not sleep at night because she is 
     engaged in prayer." The Prophet (ﷺ) said disapprovingly: Do (good) deeds 
     which is within your capacity as Allah never gets tired of giving 
     rewards till you get tired of doing good deeds."
Bukhari:1152 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "O `Abdullah! Do not be like so and so who used to pray at night and then 
stopped the night prayer."
Bukhari:1153 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "I have been informed that you offer Salat (prayer) all the night and observe Saum (fast) during the day." I said, "(Yes) I do so." He said, "If you do so, your eye sight will become weak and you will become weak. No doubt, your body has right on you, and your family has right on you, so observe Saum (for some days) and do not observe it (for some days), offer Salat (for sometime) and then sleep."
Bukhari:1154 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:The Prophet (ﷺ) "Whoever gets up at night and says: -- 'La ilaha il-lallah Wahdahu la Sharika lahu Lahu-lmulk, 
waLahu-l-hamd wahuwa 'ala kullishai'in Qadir. Al hamdu lil-lahi wa subhanal-lahi wa la-ilaha 
il-lal-lah wa-l-lahu akbar wa la hawla Wala Quwata il-la-bil-lah.' (None has the right to be worshipped 
but Allah. He is the Only One and has no partners . For Him is the Kingdom and all the praises are 
due for Him. He is Omnipotent. All the praises are for Allah. All the glories are for Allah. And none 
has the right to be worshipped but Allah, And Allah is Great And there is neither Might nor Power 
Except with Allah). And then says: -- Allahumma, Ighfir li (O Allah! Forgive me). Or invokes (Allah), 
he will be responded to and if he performs ablution (and prays), his prayer will be accepted."
Bukhari:1155 Narrated Abu Huraira:That once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Your brother, i.e. `Abdullah bin Rawaha does not say 
obscene (referring to his verses): Amongst us is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), who recites His Book when it dawns. 
He showed us the guidance, after we were blind. We believe that whatever he says will come true. 
And he spends his nights in such a way as his sides do not touch his bed. While the pagans were 
deeply asleep."
Bukhari:1156 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) I dreamt that a piece of silk cloth was in my hand and it 
flew with me to whichever part of Paradise I wanted. I also saw as if two persons (i.e. angels) came to 
me and wanted to take me to Hell. Then an angel met us and told me not to be afraid. He then told 
them to leave me. Hafsa narrated one of my dreams to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abdullah is 
a good man. Would that he offer the night prayer (Tahajjud)!" So after that day `Abdullah (bin `Umar) 
started offering Tahajjud. The companions of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to tell him their dreams that 
(Laila-tul-Qadr) was on the 27th of the month of Ramadan. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I see that your dreams 
agree on the last ten nights of Ramadan and so whoever is in search of it should seek it in the last ten 
nights of Ramadan."
Bukhari:1157 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) I dreamt that a piece of silk cloth was in my hand and it 
flew with me to whichever part of Paradise I wanted. I also saw as if two persons (i.e. angels) came to 
me and wanted to take me to Hell. Then an angel met us and told me not to be afraid. He then told 
them to leave me. Hafsa narrated one of my dreams to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abdullah is 
a good man. Would that he offer the night prayer (Tahajjud)!" So after that day `Abdullah (bin `Umar) 
started offering Tahajjud. The companions of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to tell him their dreams that 
(Laila-tul-Qadr) was on the 27th of the month of Ramadan. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I see that your dreams 
agree on the last ten nights of Ramadan and so whoever is in search of it should seek it in the last ten 
nights of Ramadan."
Bukhari:1158 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) I dreamt that a piece of silk cloth was in my hand and it 
flew with me to whichever part of Paradise I wanted. I also saw as if two persons (i.e. angels) came to 
me and wanted to take me to Hell. Then an angel met us and told me not to be afraid. He then told 
them to leave me. Hafsa narrated one of my dreams to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abdullah is 
a good man. Would that he offer the night prayer (Tahajjud)!" So after that day `Abdullah (bin `Umar) 
started offering Tahajjud. The companions of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to tell him their dreams that 
(Laila-tul-Qadr) was on the 27th of the month of Ramadan. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I see that your dreams 
agree on the last ten nights of Ramadan and so whoever is in search of it should seek it in the last ten 
nights of Ramadan."
Bukhari:1159 Narrated `Aisha;:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the `Isha' prayer (and then got up at the Tahajjud time) and offered eight rak`at 
and then offered two rak`at while sitting. He then offered two rak`at in between the Adhan and Iqama 
(of the Fajr prayer) and he never missed them.
Bukhari:1160 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to lie down on his right side, after offering two rak`at (Sunna) of the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:1161 Narrated `Aisha:After offering the Sunna of the Fajr prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to talk to me, if I happen to be awake; 
otherwise he would lie down till the Iqama call was proclaimed (for the Fajr prayer).
Bukhari:1162 Narrated `Aisha:After offering the two rak`at (Sunna) the Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to talk to me, if I happen to be awake; 
otherwise he would lie down.
Bukhari:1163 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) was never more regular and particular in offering any Nawafil than the two rak`at 
(Sunna) of the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:1164 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer thirteen rak`at in the night prayer and on hearing the Adhan for the 
morning prayer, he used to offer two light rak`at.
Bukhari:1165 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to make the two rak`at before the Fajr prayer so light that I would wonder 
whether he recited Al-Fatiha (or not).
Bukhari:1166 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to teach us the way of doing Istikhara (Istikhara means to ask Allah to 
guide one to the right sort of action concerning any job or a deed), in all matters as he taught us the 
Suras of the Qur'an. He said, "If anyone of you thinks of doing any job he should offer a two rak`at 
prayer other than the compulsory ones and say (after the prayer): -- 'Allahumma inni astakhiruka 
bi'ilmika, Wa astaqdiruka bi-qudratika, Wa as'alaka min fadlika Al-`azlm Fa-innaka taqdiru Wala 
aqdiru, Wa ta'lamu Wala a'lamu, Wa anta 'allamu l-ghuyub. Allahumma, in kunta ta'lam anna hadha-lamra 
Khairun li fi dini wa ma'ashi wa'aqibati `Amri (or 'ajili `Amri wa'ajilihi) Faqdirhu wa yas-sirhu li 
thumma barik li Fihi, Wa in kunta ta'lamu anna hadha-lamra shar-run li fi dini wa ma'ashi wa'aqibati 
`Amri (or fi'ajili `Amri wa ajilihi) Fasrifhu anni was-rifni anhu. Waqdir li al-khaira haithu kana 
Thumma ardini bihi.' (O Allah! I ask guidance from Your knowledge, And Power from Your Might 
and I ask for Your great blessings. You are capable and I am not. You know and I do not and You 
know the unseen. O Allah! If You know that this job is good for my religion and my subsistence and 
in my Hereafter--(or said: If it is better for my present and later needs)--Then You ordain it for me and 
make it easy for me to get, And then bless me in it, and if You know that this job is harmful to me In 
my religion and subsistence and in the Hereafter--(or said: If it is worse for my present and later 
needs)--Then keep it away from me and let me be away from it. And ordain for me whatever is good 
for me, And make me satisfied with it). The Prophet (ﷺ) added that then the person should name 
(mention) his need.
Bukhari:1167 Narrated Abu Qatada bin Rabi Al-Ansari;:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you enters a Mosque, he should not sit until he has offered a tworak` 
at prayer."
Bukhari:1168 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us and offered a two rak`at prayer and then went away.
Bukhari:1169 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar Abu:I offered with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a two rak`at prayer before the Zuhr prayer and two rak`at after the Zuhr 
prayer, two rak`at after Jumua, Maghrib and `Isha' prayers.
Bukhari:1170 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While delivering a sermon, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you comes while the Imam is 
delivering the sermon or has come out for it, he should offer a two rak`at prayer."
Bukhari:1171 Narrated Mujahid:Somebody came to the house of Ibn `Umar and told him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s had entered the Ka`ba. 
Ibn `Umar said, "I went in front of the Ka`ba and found that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had come out of the 
Ka`ba and I saw Bilal standing by the side of the gate of the Ka`ba. I said, 'O Bilal! Has Allah's 
Apostle (p.b.u.h) prayed inside the Ka`ba?' Bilal replied in the affirmative. I said, 'Where (did he 
pray)?' He replied, '(He prayed) Between these two pillars and then he came out and offered a two 
rak`at prayer in front of the Ka`ba.' " Abu `Abdullah said: Abu Huraira said, "The Prophet (p.b.u.h) 
advised me to offer two rak`at of Duha prayer (prayer to be offered after sunrise and before midday). " 
Itban (bin Malik) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) and Abu Bakr, came to me after sunrise and we aligned behind the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and 
offered two rak`at."
Bukhari:1172 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I offered with the Prophet (ﷺ) two rak`at before the Zuhr and two rak`at after the Zuhr prayer; two rak`at 
after Maghrib, `Isha' and the Jumua prayers. Those of the Maghrib and `Isha' were offered in his 
house. My sister Hafsa told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two light rak`at after dawn and it was the 
time when I never went to the Prophet."
Bukhari:1173 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I offered with the Prophet (ﷺ) two rak`at before the Zuhr and two rak`at after the Zuhr prayer; two rak`at 
after Maghrib, `Isha' and the Jumua prayers. Those of the Maghrib and `Isha' were offered in his 
house. My sister Hafsa told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two light rak`at after dawn and it was the 
time when I never went to the Prophet."
Bukhari:1174 Narrated `Amr:I heard Abu Ash-sha'tha' Jabir saying, "I heard Ibn `Abbas saying, 'I offered with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eight 
rak`at (of Zuhr and `Asr prayers) together and seven rak`at (the Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers) 
together.' " I said, "O Abu Ash-shatha! I think he must have prayed the Zuhr late and the `Asr early; 
the `Isha early and the Maghrib late." Abu Ash-sha'tha' said, "I also think so." (See Hadith No. 518 
Vol. 1).
Bukhari:1175 Narrated Muwarriq:I asked Ibn `Umar "Do you offer the Duha prayer?" He replied in the negative. I further asked, "Did 
`Umar use to pray it?" He (Ibn `Umar) replied in the negative. I again asked, "Did Abu Bakr use to 
pray it?" He replied in the negative. I again asked, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to pray it?" Ibn `Umar replied, 
"I don't think he did."
Bukhari:1176 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Laila:Only Um Hani narrated to me that she had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the Duha prayer. She said, "On 
the day of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered my house, took a bath and offered eight rak`at 
(of Duha prayers. I had never seen the Prophet (ﷺ) offering such a light prayer but he performed bowing 
and prostrations perfectly .
Bukhari:1177 Narrated `Aisha:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the Duha prayer but I always offer it.
Bukhari:1178 Narrated Abu Huraira:My friend (the Prophet) advised me to do three things and I shall not leave them till I die, these are: 
To fast three days every month, to offer the Duha prayer, and to offer witr before sleeping.
Bukhari:1179 Narrated Anas bin Sirin:I heard Anas bin Malik al-Ansari saying, "An Ansari man, who was very 
     fat, said to the Prophet, 'I am unable to present myself for the 
     prayer with you.' He prepared a meal for the Prophet (ﷺ) and invited him 
     to his house. He washed one side of a mat with water and the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     offered two Rakat on it." So and so, the son of so and so, the son of 
     Al-Jarud asked Anas, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to offer the Duha prayer?" 
     Anas replied, "I never saw him praying (the Duha prayer) except on 
     that day."
Bukhari:1180 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:I remember ten Rakat of Nawafil from the Prophet, two Rakat before the Zuhr prayer and two after it; two Rakat after Maghrib prayer in his house, and two Rakat after 'Isha' prayer in his house, and two Rakat before the Fajr prayer and at that time nobody would enter the house of the Prophet.Hafsa told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two Rakat after the call maker had made the Adhan and the day had dawned.
Bukhari:1181 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:I remember ten Rakat of Nawafil from the Prophet, two Rakat before the Zuhr prayer and two after it; two Rakat after Maghrib prayer in his house, and two Rakat after 'Isha' prayer in his house, and two Rakat before the Fajr prayer and at that time nobody would enter the house of the Prophet.Hafsa told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two Rakat after the call maker had made the Adhan and the day had dawned.
Bukhari:1182 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) never missed four rak`at before the Zuhr prayer and two rak`at before the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:1183 Narrated `Abdullah Al-Muzni:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Pray before the Maghrib (compulsory) prayer." He (said it thrice) and in the third 
time, he said, "Whoever wants to offer it can do so." He said so because he did not like the people to 
take it as a tradition.
Bukhari:1184 Narrated Marthad bin `Abdullah Al-Yazani:I went to `Uqba bin 'Amir Al-Juhani and said, "Is it not surprising that Abi Tamim offers two rak`at 
before the Maghrib prayer?" `Uqba said, "We used to do so in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." I asked 
him, "What prevents you from offering it now?" He replied, "Business."
Bukhari:1185 Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-rabi' Al-Ansari:that he remembered Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he also remembered a mouthful of water which he had 
thrown on his face, after taking it from a well that was in their house. Mahmud said that he had heard 
`Itban bin Malik, who was present with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle of Badr saying, "I used to lead my 
people at Bani Salim in the prayer and there was a valley between me and those people. Whenever it 
rained it used to be difficult for me to cross it to go to their mosque. So I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
said, 'I have weak eyesight and the valley between me and my people flows during the rainy season 
and it becomes difficult for me to cross it; I wish you would come to my house and pray at a place so 
that I could take that place as a praying place.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I will do so.' So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and Abu Bakr came to my house in the (next) morning after the sun had risen high. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
asked my permission to let him in and I admitted him. He did not sit before saying, 'Where do you 
want us to offer the prayer in your house?' I pointed to the place where I wanted him to pray. So 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer and started the prayer with Takbir and we aligned in rows 
behind him; and he offered two rak`at, and finished them with Taslim, and we also performed Taslim 
with him. I detained him for a meal called "Khazir" which I had prepared for him.--("Khazir" is a 
special type of dish prepared from barley flour and meat soup)-- 
When the neighbors got the news that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in my house, they poured it till there were a 
great number of men in the house. One of them said, 'What is wrong with Malik, for I do not see him?' 
One of them replied, 'He is a hypocrite and does not love Allah and His Apostle.' On that Allah's 
Apostle said, 'Don't say this. Haven't you seen that he said, 'None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah for Allah's sake only.' The man replied, 'Allah and His Apostle know better; but by Allah, we 
never saw him but helping and talking with the hypocrites.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, 'No doubt, 
whoever says. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and by that he wants the pleasures of 
Allah, then Allah will save him from Hell." Mahmud added, "I told the above narration to some 
people, one of whom was Abu Aiyub, the companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle in which he (Abu 
Aiyub) died and Yazid bin Mu'awiya was their leader in Roman Territory. Abu Aiyub denounced the 
narration and said, 'I doubt that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ever said what you have said.' I felt that too much, and 
I vowed to Allah that if I remained alive in that holy battle, I would (go to Medina and) ask `Itban bin 
Malik if he was still living in the mosque of his people. So when he returned, I assumed Ihram for 
Hajj or `Umra and then I proceeded on till I reached Medina. I went to Bani Salim and `Itban bin 
Malik, who was by then an old blind man, was leading his people in the prayer. When he finished the 
prayer, I greeted him and introduced myself to him and then asked him about that narration. He told 
that narration again in the same manner as he had narrated it the first time."
Bukhari:1186 Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-rabi' Al-Ansari:that he remembered Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he also remembered a mouthful of water which he had 
thrown on his face, after taking it from a well that was in their house. Mahmud said that he had heard 
`Itban bin Malik, who was present with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle of Badr saying, "I used to lead my 
people at Bani Salim in the prayer and there was a valley between me and those people. Whenever it 
rained it used to be difficult for me to cross it to go to their mosque. So I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
said, 'I have weak eyesight and the valley between me and my people flows during the rainy season 
and it becomes difficult for me to cross it; I wish you would come to my house and pray at a place so 
that I could take that place as a praying place.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I will do so.' So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and Abu Bakr came to my house in the (next) morning after the sun had risen high. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
asked my permission to let him in and I admitted him. He did not sit before saying, 'Where do you 
want us to offer the prayer in your house?' I pointed to the place where I wanted him to pray. So 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer and started the prayer with Takbir and we aligned in rows 
behind him; and he offered two rak`at, and finished them with Taslim, and we also performed Taslim 
with him. I detained him for a meal called "Khazir" which I had prepared for him.--("Khazir" is a 
special type of dish prepared from barley flour and meat soup)-- 
When the neighbors got the news that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in my house, they poured it till there were a 
great number of men in the house. One of them said, 'What is wrong with Malik, for I do not see him?' 
One of them replied, 'He is a hypocrite and does not love Allah and His Apostle.' On that Allah's 
Apostle said, 'Don't say this. Haven't you seen that he said, 'None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah for Allah's sake only.' The man replied, 'Allah and His Apostle know better; but by Allah, we 
never saw him but helping and talking with the hypocrites.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, 'No doubt, 
whoever says. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and by that he wants the pleasures of 
Allah, then Allah will save him from Hell." Mahmud added, "I told the above narration to some 
people, one of whom was Abu Aiyub, the companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the battle in which he (Abu 
Aiyub) died and Yazid bin Mu'awiya was their leader in Roman Territory. Abu Aiyub denounced the 
narration and said, 'I doubt that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ever said what you have said.' I felt that too much, and 
I vowed to Allah that if I remained alive in that holy battle, I would (go to Medina and) ask `Itban bin 
Malik if he was still living in the mosque of his people. So when he returned, I assumed Ihram for 
Hajj or `Umra and then I proceeded on till I reached Medina. I went to Bani Salim and `Itban bin 
Malik, who was by then an old blind man, was leading his people in the prayer. When he finished the 
prayer, I greeted him and introduced myself to him and then asked him about that narration. He told 
that narration again in the same manner as he had narrated it the first time."
Bukhari:1187 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Offer some of your prayers in your houses and do not make them graves."
Bukhari:1188 Narrated Quza'a:I heard Abu Said saying four words. He said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     (saying the following narrative)." He had participated in twelve holy 
     battles with the Prophet.
Bukhari:1189 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not set out on a journey
     except for three Mosques i.e. Al-Masjid-AI-Haram, the Mosque of 
     Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and the Mosque of Al-Aqsa, (Mosque of Jerusalem)."
Bukhari:1190 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "One prayer in my Mosque is better than one thousand prayers in any other 
mosque excepting Al-Masjid-AI-Haram."
Bukhari:1191 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar never offered the Duha prayer except on two occasions: 
(1) Whenever he reached Mecca; and he always used to reach Mecca in the forenoon. He would 
perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and then offer two rak`at at the rear of Maqam Ibrahim. 
(2) Whenever he visited Quba, for he used to visit it every Saturday. When he entered the Mosque, he 
disliked to leave it without offering a prayer. Ibn `Umar narrated that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit the 
Mosque of Quba (sometime) walking and (sometime) riding. And he (i.e. Ibn `Umar) used to say, "I 
do only what my companions used to do and I don't forbid anybody to pray at any time during the day 
or night except that one should not intend to pray at sunrise or sunset."
Bukhari:1192 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar never offered the Duha prayer except on two occasions: 
(1) Whenever he reached Mecca; and he always used to reach Mecca in the forenoon. He would 
perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and then offer two rak`at at the rear of Maqam Ibrahim. 
(2) Whenever he visited Quba, for he used to visit it every Saturday. When he entered the Mosque, he 
disliked to leave it without offering a prayer. Ibn `Umar narrated that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit the 
Mosque of Quba (sometime) walking and (sometime) riding. And he (i.e. Ibn `Umar) used to say, "I 
do only what my companions used to do and I don't forbid anybody to pray at any time during the day 
or night except that one should not intend to pray at sunrise or sunset."
Bukhari:1193 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Mosque of Quba every Saturday (sometimes) walking 
and (sometimes) riding." `Abdullah (Ibn `Umar) used to do the same.
Bukhari:1194 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Mosque of Quba (sometimes) walking and sometimes riding. Added 
Nafi` (in another narration), "He then would offer two rak`at (in the Mosque of Quba)."
Bukhari:1195 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid Al-Mazini:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and the pulpit there is a garden of the gardens of Paradise."
Bukhari:1196 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden of the gardens of Paradise, and 
my pulpit is on my fountain tank (i.e. Al-Kauthar)."
Bukhari:1197 Narrated Qaza'a Maula:(freed slave of) Ziyad: I heard Abu Sa`id Al-khudri narrating four things from the Prophet (ﷺ) and I 
appreciated them very much. He said, conveying the words of the Prophet. 
(1) "A woman should not go on a two day journey except with her husband or a Dhi-Mahram. 
(2) No fasting is permissible on two days: `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha. 
(3) No prayer after two prayers, i.e. after the Fajr prayer till the sunrises and after the `Asr prayer till 
the sun sets. 
(4) Do not prepare yourself for a journey except to three Mosques, i.e. Al-Masjid-AI-Haram, the 
Mosque of Aqsa (Jerusalem) and my Mosque."
Bukhari:1198 Narrated Kuraib Maula Ibn `Abbas:`Abdullah bin `Abbas said that he had passed a night in the house of Maimuna the mother of the 
faithful believers , who was his aunt. He said, "I slept across the bed, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with 
his wife slept lengthwise. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept till midnight or slightly before or after it. Then Allah's 
Apostle woke up, sat, and removed the traces of sleep by rubbing his hands over his face. Then he 
recited the last ten verses of Surat-Al `Imran (2). Then he went towards a hanging leather watercontainer 
and performed a perfect ablution and then stood up for prayer." `Abdullah bin `Abbas 
added, "I got up and did the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had done and then went and stood by his side. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then put his right hand over my head and caught my right ear and twisted it. He 
offered two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at 
and then offered one rak`a witr. Then he lay down till the Mu'adh-dhin came and then he prayed two 
light rak`at and went out and offered the early morning (Fajr) prayer."
Bukhari:1199 Narrated `Abdullah:We used to greet the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was praying and he used to answer our greetings. When we 
returned from An-Najashi (the ruler of Ethiopia), we greeted him, but he did not answer us (during the 
prayer) and (after finishing the prayer) he said, "In the prayer one is occupied (with a more serious 
matter)."
Bukhari:1200 Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to speak while praying, and one of us would tell his needs to his 
companions, till the verse, 'Guard strictly your prayers (2.238) was revealed. After that we were 
ordered to remain silent while praying.
Bukhari:1201 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to affect a reconciliation between the tribes of Bani `Amr bin `Auf and the time 
of the prayer became due; Bilal went to Abu Bakr and said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) is detained. Will you lead 
the people in the prayer?" Abu Bakr replied, "Yes, if you wish." So Bilal pronounced the Iqama and 
Abu Bakr led the prayer. In the meantime the Prophet (ﷺ) came crossing the rows (of the praying people) 
till he stood in the first row and the people started clapping. Abu Bakr never looked hither and thither 
during the prayer but when the people clapped too much, he looked back and saw the Prophet (ﷺ) in the 
(first) row. The Prophet (ﷺ) waved him to remain at his place, but Abu Bakr raised both his hands and 
sent praises to Allah and then retreated and the Prophet (ﷺ) went forward and led the prayer. (See Hadith 
No. 295 & 296)
Bukhari:1202 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:We used to say the greeting, name and greet each other in the prayer. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard it and 
said:--"Say, 'at-tahiyyatu lil-lahi was-salawatu wat-taiyibatu . Assalamu 'Alaika aiyuha-n-Nabiyu warahmatu- 
l-lahi wa-barakatuhu. _ Assalamu alaina wa-'ala 'ibadi-l-lahi as-salihin.. Ashhadu an la ilaha 
illa-l-lah wa ashhadu anna Muhammadan `Abdu hu wa Rasuluh. (All the compliments are for Allah 
and all the prayers and all the good things (are for Allah). Peace be on you, O Prophet, and Allah's 
mercy and blessings (are on you). And peace be on us and on the good (pious) worshipers of Allah. I 
testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah and that Muhammad is His slave and 
Apostle.) So, when you have said this, then you have surely sent the greetings to every good (pious) 
worshipper of Allah, whether he be in the Heaven or on the Earth . "
Bukhari:1203 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The saying 'Sub Han Allah' is for men and clapping is for women." (If something 
happens in the prayer, the men can invite the attention of the Imam by saying "Sub Han Allah". And 
women, by clapping their hands).
Bukhari:1204 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The saying 'Sub Han Allah' is for men and clapping is for women.
Bukhari:1205 Narrated Anas bin Malik:While Abu Bakr was leading the people in the morning prayer on a 
     Monday, the Prophet (ﷺ) came towards them suddenly having lifted the 
     curtain of 'Aisha's house, and looked at them as they were standing in
     rows and smiled. Abu Bakr tried to come back thinking that Allah's 
     Apostle wanted to come out for the prayer. The attention of the 
     Muslims was diverted from the prayer because they were delighted to 
     see the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) waved his hand to them to complete their 
     prayer, then he went back into the room and let down the curtain. The 
     Prophet expired on that very day.
Bukhari:1206 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A woman called her son while he was in his 
     hermitage and said, 'O Juraij' He said, 'O Allah, my mother (is 
     calling me) and (I am offering) my prayer (what shall I do)?' She 
     again said, 'O Juraij!' He said again, 'O Allah ! My mother (is 
     calling me) and (I am offering) my prayer (what shall I do)?' She 
     again said, 'O Juraij' He again said, 'O Allah! My mother (is calling 
     me) and (I am offering) my prayer. (What shall I do?)' She said, 'O 
     Allah! Do not let Juraij die till he sees the faces of prostitutes.' A
     shepherdess used to come by his hermitage for grazing her sheep and 
     she gave birth to a child. She was asked whose child that was, and she
     replied that it was from Juraij and that he had come out from his 
     hermitage. Juraij said, 'Where is that woman who claims that her child
     is from me?' (When she was brought to him along with the child), 
     Juraij asked the child, 'O Babus, who is your father?' The child 
     replied, 'The shepherd.' " (See Hadith No 662. Vol 3).
Bukhari:1207 Narrated Mu'aiqib:The Prophet (ﷺ) talked about a man leveling the earth on prostrating, and said, "If you have to do so, then 
do it once."
Bukhari:1208 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) in scorching heat, and if someone of us could not put his face on the 
earth (because of the heat) then he would spread his clothes and prostrate over them.
Bukhari:1209 Narrated Aisha:I used to stretch my legs towards the Qibla of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was praying; whenever he 
prostrated he touched me, and I would withdraw my legs, and whenever he stood up, I would restretch 
my legs.
Bukhari:1210 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) once offered the prayer and said, "Satan came in front of me and tried to interrupt my 
prayer, but Allah gave me an upper hand on him and I choked him. No doubt, I thought of tying him 
to one of the pillars of the mosque till you get up in the morning and see him. Then I remembered the 
statement of Prophet Solomon, 'My Lord ! Bestow on me a kingdom such as shall not belong to any 
other after me.' Then Allah made him (Satan) return with his head down (humiliated)."
Bukhari:1211 Narrated Al-Azraq bin Qais:We were at Al-Ahwaz fighting the Al-Haruriya (tribe). While I was at the bank of a river a man was 
praying and the reins of his animal were in his hands and the animal was struggling and he was 
following the animal. (Shu`ba, a sub-narrator, said that man was Abu Barza Al-Aslami). A man from 
the Khawarij said, "O Allah! Be harsh to this sheik." And when the sheik (Abu Barza) finished his 
prayer, he said, "I heard your remark. No doubt, I participated with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in six or seven or 
eight holy battles and saw his leniency, and no doubt, I would rather retain my animal than let it return 
to its stable, as it would cause me much trouble. "
Bukhari:1212 Narrated `Aisha:Once the sun eclipsed and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer and recited a very long Sura and 
when bowed for a long while and then raised his head and started reciting another Sura. Then he 
bowed, and after finishing, he prostrated and did the same in the second rak`a and then said, "These 
(lunar and solar eclipses) are two of the signs of Allah and if you see them, pray till the eclipse is over. 
No doubt, while standing at this place I saw everything promised to me by Allah and I saw (Paradise) 
and I wanted to pluck a bunch (of grapes) therefrom, at the time when you saw me stepping forward. 
No doubt, I saw Hell with its different parts destroying each other when you saw me retreating and in 
it I saw `Amr bin Luhai who started the tradition of freeing animals (set them free) in the name of 
idols."
Bukhari:1213 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw some sputum on the wall facing the Qibla of the mosque and became furious with 
the people of the mosque and said, "During the prayer, Allah is in front of everyone of you and so he 
should not spit (or said, 'He should not expectorate')." Then he got down and scratched the sputum 
with his hand. Ibn `Umar said (after narrating), "If anyone of you has to spit during the prayer, he 
should spit to his left."
Bukhari:1214 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you is in prayer, he is speaking in private to his Lord and so 
he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right side but to his left side under his left foot."
Bukhari:1215 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The people used to offer the prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) with their waist-sheets tied round their necks 
because of the shortness of the sheets and the women were ordered not to lift their heads till the men 
had sat straight.
Bukhari:1216 Narrated `Abdullah:I used to greet the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in prayer and he would return my greeting, but when we 
returned (from Ethiopia) I greeted the Prophet (while he was praying) but he did not return the 
greeting, and (after finishing the prayer) he said, "In the prayer one is occupied (with a more serious 
matter)."
Bukhari:1217 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me for some job and when I had finished it I returned and came to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and greeted him but he did not return my greeting. So I felt so sorry that only Allah knows it and I 
said to myself,, 'Perhaps Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is angry because I did not come quickly, then again I greeted 
him but he did not reply. I felt even more sorry than I did the first time. Again I greeted him and he 
returned the greeting and said, "The thing which prevented me from returning the greeting was that I 
was praying." And at that time he was on his Rahila and his face was not towards the Qibla.
Bukhari:1218 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The news about the differences amongst the people of Bani `Amr bin `Auf at Quba reached Allah's 
Apostle and so he went to them along with some of his companions to affect a reconciliation. Allah's 
Apostle was delayed there and the time for the prayer became due. Bilal came to Abu Bakr! and said, 
"O Abu Bakr! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is detained (there) and the time for the prayer is due. Will you lead the 
people in prayer?" Abu Bakr replied, "Yes, if you wish." So Bilal pronounced the Iqama and Abu 
Bakr went forward and the people said Takbir. In the meantime, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came piercing 
through the rows till he stood in the (first) row and the people started clapping. Abu Bakr, would 
never look hither and thither during the prayer but when the people clapped much he looked back and 
saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on. Abu Bakr raised both his hands, praised 
Allah and retreated till he stood in the row and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went forward and led the people in the 
prayer. When he had finished the prayer, he addressed the people and said, "O people! Why did you 
start clapping when something happened to you in the prayer? Clapping is for women. Whenever one 
is confronted with something unusual in the prayer one should say, 'Sub Han Allah'." Then the 
Prophet looked towards Abu Bakr and asked, "What prevented you from leading the prayer when I 
beckoned you to carry on?" Abu Bakr replied, "It does not befit the son of Al Quhafa to lead the 
prayer in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:1219 Narrated Abu Huraira:It was forbidden to keep the hands on the hips during the prayer. (This is narrated by Abu Huraira 
from the Prophet.)
Bukhari:1220 Narrated Abu Huraira:It was forbidden to pray with the hands over one's hips.
Bukhari:1221 Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:I offered the `Asr prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and after finishing the prayer with Taslim he got up quickly 
and went to some of his wives and then came out. He noticed the signs of astonishment on the faces of 
the people caused by his speed. He then said, "I remembered while I was in my prayer that a piece of 
gold was Lying in my house and I disliked that it should remain with us throughout the night, and so I 
have ordered it to be distributed."
Bukhari:1222 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Adhan for the prayer is pronounced, then Satan takes to his heels 
passing wind so that he may not hear the Adhan and when the Mu'adh-dhin finishes, he comes back; 
and when the Iqama is pronounced he again takes to his heels and when it is finished, he again comes 
back and continues reminding the praying person of things that he used not to remember when not in 
prayer till he forgets how much he has prayed." Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman said, "If anyone of 
you has such a thing (forgetting the number of rak`at he has prayed) he should perform two 
prostrations of Sahu (i.e. forgetfulness) while sitting." Abu Salama narrates this from Abu Huraira.
Bukhari:1223 Narrated Abu Huraira:People say that I narrate too many narrations of the Prophet; once I met a man (during the lifetime of 
the Prophet) and asked him, "Which Sura did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) s recite yesterday in the `Isha' prayer?" 
He said, "I do not know." I said, "Did you not attend the prayer?" He said, "Yes, (I did)." I said, "I 
know. He recited such and such Sura."
Bukhari:1224 Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once led us in a prayer and offered two rak`at and got up (for the third rak`a) without 
sitting (after the second rak`a). The people also got up with him, and when he was about to finish his 
prayer, we waited for him to finish the prayer with Taslim but he said Takbir before Taslim and 
performed two prostrations while sitting and then finished the prayer with Taslim.
Bukhari:1225 Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up after the second rak`a of the Zuhr prayer without sitting in between (the second 
and the third rak`at). When he finished the prayer he performed two prostrations (of Sahu) and then 
finished the prayer with Taslim.
Bukhari:1226 Narrated' `Abdullah:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered five rak`at in the Zuhr prayer, and somebody asked him whether there 
was some increase in the prayer. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "What is that?" He said, "You have offered five 
rak`at." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed two prostrations of Sahu after Taslim.
Bukhari:1227 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the `Asr or the Zuhr prayer and finished it with Taslim. Dhul-Yadain said to 
him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Has the prayer been reduced?" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked his companions in the 
affirmative. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I offered two more rak`at and then performed two prostrations (of 
Sahu). Sa`d said, "I saw that 'Urwa bin Az-Zubair had offered two rak`at in the Maghrib prayer and 
finished it with Taslim. He then talked (and when he was informed about it) he completed the rest of 
his prayer and performed two prostrations, and said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed like this.' "
Bukhari:1228 Narrated Abu Huraira.:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered two rak`at and finished his prayer. So Dhul-Yadain asked him, "Has the 
prayer been reduced or have you forgotten?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Has Dhul-Yadain spoken the 
truth?" The people replied in the affirmative. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and offered the remaining 
two rak`at and performed Taslim, and then said Takbir and performed two prostrations like his usual 
prostrations, or a bit longer, and then got up.
Bukhari:1229 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered one of the evening prayers (the sub-narrator Muhammad said, "I think that it was 
most probably the `Asr prayer") and he finished it after offering two rak`at only. He then stood near a 
price of wood in front of the Mosque and put his hand over it. Abu Bakr and `Umar were amongst 
those who were present, but they dared not talk to him about that (because of excessive respect for 
him), and those who were in a hurry went out. They said, "Has the prayer been reduced?" A man who 
was called Dhul-Yadain by the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the Prophet), "Has the prayer been reduced or have 
you forgotten?" He said, "Neither have I forgotten, nor has the prayer been reduced." He said, 
"Certainly you have forgotten." So the Prophet (ﷺ) offered two more rak`at and performed Taslim and 
then said Takbir and performed a prostration of Sahu like his ordinary prostration or a bit longer and 
then raised his head and said Takbir and then put his head down and performed a prostration like his 
ordinary prostration or a bit longer, and then raised his head and said Takbir.
Bukhari:1230 Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina Al-Asdi:(the ally of Bani `Abdul Muttalib) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the Zuhr prayer and he should have sat 
(after the second rak`a but he stood up for the third rak`a without sitting for Tashah-hud) and when he 
finished the prayer he performed two prostrations and said Takbir on each prostration while sitting, 
before ending (the prayer) with Taslim; and the people too performed the two prostrations with him 
instead of the sitting he forgot.
Bukhari:1231 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the call for prayer is made, Satan takes to his heels passing wind so that 
he may not hear the Adhan and when the call is finished he comes back, and when the Iqama is 
pronounced, Satan again takes to his heels, and when the Iqama is finished he comes back again and 
tries to interfere with the person and his thoughts and say, "Remember this and that (which he has not 
thought of before the prayer)", till the praying person forgets how much he has prayed. If anyone of 
you does not remember whether he has offered three or four rak`at then he should perform two 
prostrations of Sahu while sitting.
Bukhari:1232 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you stands for the prayers, Satan comes and puts him in doubts 
till he forgets how many rak`at he has prayed. So if this happens to anyone of you, he should perform 
two prostrations of Sahu while sitting.
Bukhari:1233 Narrated Kuraib:I was sent to Aisha by Ibn `Abbas, Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Azhar . They 
told me to greet her on their behalf and to ask her about the offering of the two rak`at after the `Asr 
prayer and to say to her, "We were informed that you offer those two rak`at and we were told that the 
Prophet had forbidden offering them." Ibn `Abbas said, "I along with `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to 
beat the people whenever they offered them." I went to Aisha and told her that message. `Aisha said, 
"Go and ask Um Salama about them." So I returned and informed them about her statement. They 
then told me to go to Um Salama with the same question with which t sent me to `Aisha. Um Salama 
replied, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbidding them. Later I saw him offering them immediately after he 
prayed the `Asr prayer. He then entered my house at a time when some of the Ansari women from the 
tribe of Bani Haram were sitting with me, so I sent my slave girl to him having said to her, 'Stand 
beside him and tell him that Um Salama says to you, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have heard you forbidding 
the offering of these (two rak`at after the `Asr prayer) but I have seen you offering them." If he waves 
his hand then wait for him.' The slave girl did that. The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned her with his hand and she 
waited for him. When he had finished the prayer he said, "O daughter of Bani Umaiya! You have 
asked me about the two rak`at after the `Asr prayer. The people of the tribe of `Abdul-Qais came to 
me and made me busy and I could not offer the two rak`at after the Zuhr prayer. These (two rak`at that 
I have just prayed) are for those (missed) ones.
Bukhari:1234 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi:The news about the differences amongst the people of Bani `Amr bin `Auf reached Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and so he went to them along with some of his companions to effect a reconciliation between them. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was delayed there, and the time of the prayer was due. Bilal went to Abu Bakr and 
said to him, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has been delayed (there) and the time of prayer is due. So will you lead 
the people in prayer?" Abu Bakr said, "Yes, if you wish." Bilal pronounced the Iqama and Abu Bakr, 
went forward and said Takbir for the people. In the meantime Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came crossing the rows 
(of the praying people) and stood in the (first) row and the people started clapping. Abu Bakr, would 
never glance sideways in his prayer but when the people clapped much he looked back and (ﷺ) 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on the prayer. Abu Bakr raised his hands and 
thanked Allah, and retreated till he reached the (first) row. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went forward and led the 
people in the prayer. When he completed the prayer he faced the people and said, "O people! Why did 
you start clapping when something unusual happened to you in the prayer? Clapping is only for 
women. So whoever amongst you comes across something in the prayer should say, 'Subhan-Allah' 
for there is none who will not turn round on hearing him saying Subhan-Allah. O Abu Bakr! What 
prevented you from leading the people in the prayer when I beckoned you to do so?" Abu Bakr 
replied, "How dare the son of Abu Quhafa lead the prayer in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?"
Bukhari:1235 Narrated Asma':I went to `Aisha and she was standing praying and the people, too, were standing (praying). So I said, 
"What is the matter with the people?" She beckoned with her head towards the sky. 
I said, "(Is there) a sign?" She nodded intending to say, "Yes."
Bukhari:1236 Narrated `Aisha the wife of the Prophet:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during his illness prayed in his house sitting, whereas some people followed him 
standing, but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned them to sit down. On completion of the prayer he said, "The Imam 
is to be followed. So, bow when he bows, and raise your head when he raises his head." (See Hadith 
No. 657 Vol 1 for taking the verdict).
Bukhari:1237 Narrated Abu Dhar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Someone came to me from my Lord and gave me the news (or good tidings) 
that if any of my followers dies worshipping none (in any way) along with Allah, he will enter 
Paradise." I asked, "Even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse (adultery) and theft?" He replied, 
"Even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse (adultery) and theft."
Bukhari:1238 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone who dies worshipping others along with Allah will definitely enter the 
Fire." I said, "Anyone who dies worshipping none along with Allah will definitely enter Paradise."
Bukhari:1239 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to do seven things and forbade us to do other seven. He ordered us: 
to follow the funeral procession. to visit the sick, to accept invitations, to help the oppressed, to fulfill 
the oaths, to return the greeting and to reply to the sneezer: (saying, "May Allah be merciful on you," 
provided the sneezer says, "All the praises are for Allah,"). He forbade us to use silver utensils and 
dishes and to wear golden rings, silk (clothes), Dibaj (pure silk cloth), Qissi and Istabraq (two kinds of 
silk cloths).
Bukhari:1240 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The rights of a Muslim on the Muslims are five: to respond to the salaam, visiting the sick, to follow the funeral processions, to accept an invitation, and to reply to those who sneeze. (see Hadith 1239)
Bukhari:1241 Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr came riding his horse from his dwelling place in As-Sunh. He got down from it, entered the 
Mosque and did not speak with anybody till he came to me and went direct to the Prophet, who was 
covered with a marked blanket. Abu Bakr uncovered his face. He knelt down and kissed him and then 
started weeping and said, "My father and my mother be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Prophet! Allah 
will not combine two deaths on you. You have died the death which was written for you." 
Narrated Abu Salama from Ibn `Abbas : Abu Bakr came out and `Umar , was addressing the people, 
and Abu Bakr told him to sit down but `Umar refused. Abu Bakr again told him to sit down but `Umar 
again refused. Then Abu Bakr recited the Tashah-hud (i.e. none has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah and Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the people attended to Abu Bakr and left `Umar. Abu 
Bakr said, "Amma ba'du, whoever amongst you worshipped Muhammad, then Muhammad is dead, 
but whoever worshipped Allah, Allah is alive and will never die. Allah said: 'Muhammad is no more 
than an Apostle and indeed (many) Apostles have passed away before him ..(up to the) grateful.' " 
(3.144) (The narrator added, "By Allah, it was as if the people never knew that Allah had revealed this 
verse before till Abu Bakr recited it and then whoever heard it, started reciting it.")
Bukhari:1242 Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr came riding his horse from his dwelling place in As-Sunh. He got down from it, entered the 
Mosque and did not speak with anybody till he came to me and went direct to the Prophet, who was 
covered with a marked blanket. Abu Bakr uncovered his face. He knelt down and kissed him and then 
started weeping and said, "My father and my mother be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Prophet! Allah 
will not combine two deaths on you. You have died the death which was written for you." 
Narrated Abu Salama from Ibn `Abbas : Abu Bakr came out and `Umar , was addressing the people, 
and Abu Bakr told him to sit down but `Umar refused. Abu Bakr again told him to sit down but `Umar 
again refused. Then Abu Bakr recited the Tashah-hud (i.e. none has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah and Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the people attended to Abu Bakr and left `Umar. Abu 
Bakr said, "Amma ba'du, whoever amongst you worshipped Muhammad, then Muhammad is dead, 
but whoever worshipped Allah, Allah is alive and will never die. Allah said: 'Muhammad is no more 
than an Apostle and indeed (many) Apostles have passed away before him ..(up to the) grateful.' " 
(3.144) (The narrator added, "By Allah, it was as if the people never knew that Allah had revealed this 
verse before till Abu Bakr recited it and then whoever heard it, started reciting it.")
Bukhari:1243 Narrated Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit:Um Al-`Ala', an Ansari woman who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "The 
emigrants were distributed amongst us by drawing lots and we got in our share `Uthman bin Maz'un. 
We made him stay with us in our house. Then he suffered from a disease which proved fatal when he 
died and was given a bath and was shrouded in his clothes, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came I said, 'May Allah be 
merciful to you, O Abu As-Sa'ib! I testify that Allah has honored you'. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'How do you 
know that Allah has honored him?' I replied, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! 
On whom else shall Allah bestow His honor?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'No doubt, death came to him. By 
Allah, I too wish him good, but by Allah, I do not know what Allah will do with me though I am 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). ' By Allah, I never attested the piety of anyone after that."Al-Laith also narrated as above.
Bukhari:1244 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:When my father was martyred, I lifted the sheet from his face and wept and the people forbade me to 
do so but the Prophet (ﷺ) did not forbid me. Then my aunt Fatima began weeping and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It 
is all the same whether you weep or not. The angels were shading him continuously with their wings 
till you shifted him (from the field). "
Bukhari:1245 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed (the people) about the death of An-Najashi on the very day he died. He went 
towards the Musalla (praying place) and the people stood behind him in rows. He said four Takbirs 
(i.e. offered the Funeral prayer).
Bukhari:1246 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Zaid took over the flag and was martyred. Then it was taken by Jafar who was 
martyred as well. Then `Abdullah bin Rawaha took the flag but he too was martyred and at that time 
the eyes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) were full of tears. Then Khalid bin Al-Walid took the flag without being 
nominated as a chief (before hand) and was blessed with victory."
Bukhari:1247 Narrated Ibn `Abbas.:A person died and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit him. He died at night and (the people) buried him at 
night. In the morning they informed the Prophet (about his death). He said, "What prevented you from 
informing me?" They replied, "It was night and it was a dark night and so we disliked to trouble you." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) went to his grave and offered the (funeral) prayer.
Bukhari:1248 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim whose three children die before the age of puberty will be granted 
Paradise by Allah due to his mercy for them."
Bukhari:1249 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The women requested the Prophet, "Please fix a day for us." So the Prophet (ﷺ) preached to them and 
said, "A woman whose three children died would be screened from the Hell Fire by them," Hearing 
that, a woman asked, "If two died?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Even two (would screen her from the (Hell) 
Fire. " And Abu Huraira added, "Those children should be below the age of puberty. "
Bukhari:1250 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The women requested the Prophet, "Please fix a day for us." So the Prophet (ﷺ) preached to them and 
said, "A woman whose three children died would be screened from the Hell Fire by them," Hearing 
that, a woman asked, "If two died?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Even two (would screen her from the (Hell) 
Fire. " And Abu Huraira added, "Those children should be below the age of puberty. "
Bukhari:1251 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No Muslim whose three children died will go to the Fire except for Allah's oath 
(i.e. everyone has to pass over the bridge above the lake of fire)."
Bukhari:1252 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a woman who was sitting and weeping beside a grave and said to her, "Fear 
Allah and be patient."
Bukhari:1253 Narrated Um 'Atiyya al-Ansariya:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us when his daughter died and said, "Wash her thrice or five times or more, if 
you see it necessary, with water and Sidr and then apply camphor or some camphor at the end; and 
when you finish, notify me." So when we finished it, we informed him and he gave us his waist-sheet 
and told us to shroud the dead body in it.
Bukhari:1254 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and we were giving a bath to his (dead) daughter and said, "Wash her 
three, five or more times with water and Sidr and sprinkle camphor on her at the end; and when you 
finish, notify me." So when we finished, we informed him and he gave us his waist-sheet and told us 
to shroud her in it. Aiyub said that Hafsa narrated to him a narration similar to that of Muhammad in 
which it was said that the bath was to be given for an odd number of times, and the numbers 3, 5 or 7 
were mentioned. It was also said that they were to start with the right side and with the parts which 
were washed in ablution, and that Um 'Atiyya also mentioned, "We combed her hair and divided them 
in three braids."
Bukhari:1255 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , concerning his (dead) daughter's bath, said, "Start with the right side, and the parts 
which are washed in ablution."
Bukhari:1256 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:When we washed the deceased daughter of the Prophet, he said to us, while we were washing her, 
"Start the bath from the right side and from the parts which are washed in ablution."
Bukhari:1257 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:The daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) expired, and he said to us, "Wash her three or five times, or more if you 
see it necessary, and when you finish, notify me." So, (when we finished) we informed him and he 
unfastened his waist-sheet and told us to shroud her in it.
Bukhari:1258 Narrated Muhammad:Um 'Atiyya said, "One of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) died and he came out and said, 'Wash her three 
or five times or more, if you think it necessary, with water and Sidr, and last of all put camphor (or 
some camphor) and when you finish, inform me.' " Um Atiyya added, "When we finished we 
informed him and he gave us his waist-sheet and said, 'Shroud her in it.' " And Um 'Atiyya (in another 
narration) added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Wash her three, five or seven times or more, if you think it 
necessary.' " Hafsa said that Um 'Atiyya had also said, "We entwined her hair into three braids."
Bukhari:1259 Narrated Muhammad:Um 'Atiyya said, "One of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) died and he came out and said, 'Wash her three 
or five times or more, if you think it necessary, with water and Sidr, and last of all put camphor (or 
some camphor) and when you finish, inform me.' " Um Atiyya added, "When we finished we 
informed him and he gave us his waist-sheet and said, 'Shroud her in it.' " And Um 'Atiyya (in another 
narration) added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Wash her three, five or seven times or more, if you think it 
necessary.' " Hafsa said that Um 'Atiyya had also said, "We entwined her hair into three braids."
Bukhari:1260 Narrated Hafsa bint Seereen:Um 'Atiyya said that they had entwined the hair of the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in three braids. 
They first undid her hair, washed and then entwined it in three braids."
Bukhari:1261 Narrated Ibn Seereen:Um 'Atiyya (an Ansari woman who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) ) came to Basra to 
visit her son, but she could not find him. She narrated to us, "The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us while we were 
giving bath to his (dead) daughter, he said: 'Wash her three times, five times or more, if you think it 
necessary, with water and Sidr, and last of all put camphor, and when you finish, notify me.' " Um 
'Atiyya added, "After finishing, we informed him and he gave us his waist sheet and told us to shroud 
her in it and did not say more than that."
Bukhari:1262 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:We entwined the hair of the dead daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) into three braids. Waki said that Sufyan 
said, "One braid was entwined in front and the other two were entwined on the sides of the head."
Bukhari:1263 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:One of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) expired and he came to us and said, "Wash her with Sidr (water) 
for odd number of times, i.e. three, five or more, if you think it necessary, and in the last, put camphor 
or (some camphor on her), and when you finish, notify me." So when we finished we informed him. 
He gave his waist-sheet to us (to shroud her). We entwined the hair (of the deceased girl) in three 
braids and made them fall at her back.
Bukhari:1264 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three Yemenite white Suhuliya (pieces of cloth) of cotton, and in 
them there was neither a shirt nor a turban."
Bukhari:1265 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While a man was riding (his Mount) in `Arafat, he fell down from it (his Mount) and broke his neck 
(and died). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth, 
and neither perfume him, nor cover his head, for he will be resurrected on the Day of Resurrection 
saying, 'Labbaik,' (i.e. like a pilgrim)."
Bukhari:1266 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While a man was at `Arafat (for Hajj) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the fell down from his Mount and broke 
his neck (and died). So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two 
pieces of cloth and neither perfume him nor cover his head, for Allah will resurrect him on the Day of 
Resurrection and he will be saying 'Labbaik."
Bukhari:1267 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man was killed by his camel while we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was a Muhrim. So the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth and neither perfume him 
nor cover his head, for Allah will resurrect him on the Day of Resurrection and he will be saying 
'Labbaik' . "
Bukhari:1268 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man fell from his Mount and died while he was with the Prophet (ﷺ) at `Arafat. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth and neither perfume him nor 
cover his head, for he will be resurrected on the Day of Resurrection saying, 'Labbaik'."
Bukhari:1269 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When `Abdullah bin Ubai (the chief of hypocrites) died, his son came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Please give me your shirt to shroud him in it, offer his funeral prayer and ask for 
Allah's forgiveness for him." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) gave his shirt to him and said, "Inform me 
(When the funeral is ready) so that I may offer the funeral prayer." So, he informed him and when the 
Prophet intended to offer the funeral prayer, `Umar took hold of his hand and said, "Has Allah not 
forbidden you to offer the funeral prayer for the hypocrites? The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been given the 
choice for Allah says: '(It does not avail) Whether you (O Muhammad) ask forgiveness for them 
(hypocrites), or do not ask for forgiveness for them. Even though you ask for their forgiveness seventy 
times, Allah will not forgive them. (9.80)" So the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer and on that the 
revelation came: "And never (O Muhammad) pray (funeral prayer) for any of them (i.e. hypocrites) 
that dies." (9. 84)
Bukhari:1270 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to (the grave of) `Abdullah bin Ubai after his body was buried. The body was 
brought out and then the Prophet (ﷺ) put his saliva over the body and clothed it in his shirt.
Bukhari:1271 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth which were made of Suhul (a type of cotton), and 
neither a shirt nor a turban were used.
Bukhari:1272 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth and neither a shirt nor a turban were used.
Bukhari:1273 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth which were made of white Suhul and neither a 
shirt nor a turban were used.
Bukhari:1274 Narrated Sa`d from his father:Once the meal of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf was brought in front of him, and he said, "Mus`ab bin 
`Umair was martyred and he was better than I, and he had nothing except his Burd (a black square 
narrow dress) to be shrouded in. Hamza or another person was martyred and he was also better than I 
and he had nothing to be shrouded in except his Burd. No doubt, I fear that the rewards of my deeds 
might have been given early in this world." Then he started weeping.
Bukhari:1275 Narrated Ibrahim:Once a meal was brought to `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and he was fasting. He said, "Mustab bin 
`Umar was martyred and he was better than I and was shrouded in his Burd and when his head was 
covered with it, his legs became bare, and when his legs were covered his head got uncovered. Hamza 
was martyred and was better than I. Now the worldly wealth have been bestowed upon us (or said a 
similar thing). No doubt, I fear that the rewards of my deeds might have been given earlier in this 
world." Then he started weeping and left his food.
Bukhari:1276 Narrated Khabbab:We emigrated with the Prophet (p.b.u.h) in Allah's cause, and so our reward was then surely 
incumbent on Allah. Some of us died and they did not take anything from their rewards in this world, 
and amongst them was Mustab bin `Umar; and the others were those who got their rewards. Mustab 
bin `Umar was martyred on the day of the Battle of Uhud and we could get nothing except his Burd to 
shroud him in. And when we covered his head his feet became bare and vice versa. So the Prophet (ﷺ) 
ordered us to cover his head only and to put idhkhir (a kind of shrub) over his feet.
Bukhari:1277 Narrated Sahl:A woman brought a woven Burda (sheet) having edging (border) to the Prophet, Then Sahl asked 
them whether they knew what is Burda, they said that Burda is a cloak and Sahl confirmed their reply. 
Then the woman said, "I have woven it with my own hands and I have brought it so that you may 
wear it." The Prophet (ﷺ) accepted it, and at that time he was in need of it. So he came out wearing it as 
his waist-sheet. A man praised it and said, "Will you give it to me? How nice it is!" The other people 
said, "You have not done the right thing as the Prophet (ﷺ) is in need of it and you have asked for it when 
you know that he never turns down anybody's request." The man replied, "By Allah, I have not asked 
for it to wear it but to make it my shroud." Later it was his shroud.
Bukhari:1278 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:We were forbidden to accompany funeral processions but not strictly.
Bukhari:1279 Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:One of the sons of Um 'Atiyya died, and when it was the third day she asked for a yellow perfume and 
put it over her body, and said, "We were forbidden to mourn for more than three days except for our 
husbands."
Bukhari:1280 Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama:When the news of the death of Abu Sufyan reached from Sham, Um Habiba on the third day, asked 
for a yellow perfume and scented her cheeks and forearms and said, "No doubt, I would not have been 
in need of this, had I not heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: "It is not legal for a woman who believes in Allah 
and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days for any dead person except her husband, for 
whom she should mourn for four months and ten days."
Bukhari:1281 Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama:I went to Um Habiba, the wife of Prophet, who said, "I heard the Prophets saying, 'It is not legal for a 
woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for any dead person for more than three days 
except for her husband, (for whom she should mourn) for four months and ten days'." Later I went to 
Zainab bint Jahsh when her brother died; she asked for some scent, and after using it she said, "I am 
not in need of scent but I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'It is not legal for a woman who believes in 
Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days for any dead person except her husband, 
(for whom she should mourn) for four months and ten days.' "
Bukhari:1282 Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama:I went to Um Habiba, the wife of Prophet, who said, "I heard the Prophets saying, 'It is not legal for a 
woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for any dead person for more than three days 
except for her husband, (for whom she should mourn) for four months and ten days'." Later I went to 
Zainab bint Jahsh when her brother died; she asked for some scent, and after using it she said, "I am 
not in need of scent but I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'It is not legal for a woman who believes in 
Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days for any dead person except her husband, 
(for whom she should mourn) for four months and ten days.' "
Bukhari:1283 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a woman who was weeping beside a grave. He told her to fear Allah and be 
patient. She said to him, "Go away, for you have not been afflicted with a calamity like mine." And 
she did not recognize him. Then she was informed that he was the Prophet (ﷺ) . so she went to the house 
of the Prophet (ﷺ) and there she did not find any guard. Then she said to him, "I did not recognize you." 
He said, "Verily, the patience is at the first stroke of a calamity."
Bukhari:1284 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:The daughter of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) sent (a messenger) to the Prophet (ﷺ) requesting him to come as her 
child was dying (or was gasping), but the Prophet (ﷺ) returned the messenger and told him to convey his 
greeting to her and say: "Whatever Allah takes is for Him and whatever He gives, is for Him, and 
everything with Him has a limited fixed term (in this world) and so she should be patient and hope for 
Allah's reward." She again sent for him, swearing that he should come. The Prophet (ﷺ) got up, and so did 
Sa`d bin 'Ubada, Mu`adh bin Jabal, Ubai bin Ka`b, Zaid bin Thabit and some other men. The child 
was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while his breath was disturbed in his chest (the sub-narrator thinks that 
Usama added: ) as if it was a leather water-skin. On that the eyes of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) started 
shedding tears. Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is this?" He replied, "It is mercy which Allah has 
lodged in the hearts of His slaves, and Allah is merciful only to those of His slaves who are merciful 
(to others).
Bukhari:1285 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We were (in the funeral procession) of one of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was sitting by the 
side of the grave. I saw his eyes shedding tears. He said, "Is there anyone among you who did not 
have sexual relations with his wife last night?" Abu Talha replied in the affirmative. And so the 
Prophet told him to get down in the grave. And so he got down in her grave.
Bukhari:1286 Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Mulaika:One of the daughters of `Uthman died at Mecca. We went to attend her funeral procession. Ibn `Umar 
and Ibn `Abbas were also present. I sat in between them (or said, I sat beside one of them. Then a man 
came and sat beside me.) `Abdullah bin `Umar said to `Amr bin `Uthman, "Will you not prohibit 
crying as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has said, 'The dead person is tortured by the crying of his relatives.?" Ibn 
`Abbas said, "`Umar used to say so." Then he added narrating, "I accompanied `Umar on a journey 
from Mecca till we reached Al-Baida. There he saw some travelers in the shade of a Samura (A kind 
of forest tree). He said (to me), "Go and see who those travelers are." So I went and saw that one of 
them was Suhaib. I told this to `Umar who then asked me to call him. So I went back to Suhaib and 
said to him, "Depart and follow the chief of the faithful believers." Later, when `Umar was stabbed, 
Suhaib came in weeping and saying, "O my brother, O my friend!" (on this `Umar said to him, "O 
Suhaib! Are you weeping for me while the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The dead person is punished by some of the 
weeping of his relatives?" Ibn `Abbas added, "When `Umar died I told all this to Aisha and she said, 
'May Allah be merciful to `Umar. By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not say that a believer is punished by 
the weeping of his relatives. But he said, Allah increases the punishment of a non-believer because of 
the weeping of his relatives." Aisha further added, "The Qur'an is sufficient for you (to clear up this 
point) as Allah has stated: 'No burdened soul will bear another's burden.' " (35.18). Ibn `Abbas then 
said, "Only Allah makes one laugh or cry." Ibn `Umar did not say anything after that.
Bukhari:1287 Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Mulaika:One of the daughters of `Uthman died at Mecca. We went to attend her funeral procession. Ibn `Umar 
and Ibn `Abbas were also present. I sat in between them (or said, I sat beside one of them. Then a man 
came and sat beside me.) `Abdullah bin `Umar said to `Amr bin `Uthman, "Will you not prohibit 
crying as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has said, 'The dead person is tortured by the crying of his relatives.?" Ibn 
`Abbas said, "`Umar used to say so." Then he added narrating, "I accompanied `Umar on a journey 
from Mecca till we reached Al-Baida. There he saw some travelers in the shade of a Samura (A kind 
of forest tree). He said (to me), "Go and see who those travelers are." So I went and saw that one of 
them was Suhaib. I told this to `Umar who then asked me to call him. So I went back to Suhaib and 
said to him, "Depart and follow the chief of the faithful believers." Later, when `Umar was stabbed, 
Suhaib came in weeping and saying, "O my brother, O my friend!" (on this `Umar said to him, "O 
Suhaib! Are you weeping for me while the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The dead person is punished by some of the 
weeping of his relatives?" Ibn `Abbas added, "When `Umar died I told all this to Aisha and she said, 
'May Allah be merciful to `Umar. By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not say that a believer is punished by 
the weeping of his relatives. But he said, Allah increases the punishment of a non-believer because of 
the weeping of his relatives." Aisha further added, "The Qur'an is sufficient for you (to clear up this 
point) as Allah has stated: 'No burdened soul will bear another's burden.' " (35.18). Ibn `Abbas then 
said, "Only Allah makes one laugh or cry." Ibn `Umar did not say anything after that.
Bukhari:1288 Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Mulaika:One of the daughters of `Uthman died at Mecca. We went to attend her funeral procession. Ibn `Umar 
and Ibn `Abbas were also present. I sat in between them (or said, I sat beside one of them. Then a man 
came and sat beside me.) `Abdullah bin `Umar said to `Amr bin `Uthman, "Will you not prohibit 
crying as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has said, 'The dead person is tortured by the crying of his relatives.?" Ibn 
`Abbas said, "`Umar used to say so." Then he added narrating, "I accompanied `Umar on a journey 
from Mecca till we reached Al-Baida. There he saw some travelers in the shade of a Samura (A kind 
of forest tree). He said (to me), "Go and see who those travelers are." So I went and saw that one of 
them was Suhaib. I told this to `Umar who then asked me to call him. So I went back to Suhaib and 
said to him, "Depart and follow the chief of the faithful believers." Later, when `Umar was stabbed, 
Suhaib came in weeping and saying, "O my brother, O my friend!" (on this `Umar said to him, "O 
Suhaib! Are you weeping for me while the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The dead person is punished by some of the 
weeping of his relatives?" Ibn `Abbas added, "When `Umar died I told all this to Aisha and she said, 
'May Allah be merciful to `Umar. By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not say that a believer is punished by 
the weeping of his relatives. But he said, Allah increases the punishment of a non-believer because of 
the weeping of his relatives." Aisha further added, "The Qur'an is sufficient for you (to clear up this 
point) as Allah has stated: 'No burdened soul will bear another's burden.' " (35.18). Ibn `Abbas then 
said, "Only Allah makes one laugh or cry." Ibn `Umar did not say anything after that.
Bukhari:1289 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by (the grave of) a Jewess whose relatives were 
weeping over her. He said, "They are weeping over her and she is being tortured in her grave."
Bukhari:1290 Narrated Abu Burda:That his father said, "When `Umar was stabbed, Suhaib started crying: O my brother! `Umar said, 
'Don't you know that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: The deceased is tortured for the weeping of the living'?"
Bukhari:1291 Narrated Al-Mughira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Ascribing false things to me is not like ascribing false things to anyone 
else. Whosoever tells a lie against me intentionally then surely let him occupy his seat in Hell-Fire." I 
heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The deceased who is wailed over is tortured for that wailing."
Bukhari:1292 Narrated Ibn 'Umar from his father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The deceased is tortured in his grave for the 
     wailing done over him."Narrated Shu'ba:The deceased is tortured for the wailing of the living ones over him .
Bukhari:1293 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the day of the Battle of Uhud, my father was brought and he had been mutilated (in battle) and was placed 
in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and a sheet was over him. I went intending to uncover my father but my 
people forbade me; again I wanted to uncover him but my people forbade me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave 
his order and he was shifted away. At that time he heard the voice of a crying woman and asked, 
"Who is this?" They said, "It is the daughter or the sister of `Amr." He said, "Why does she weep? (or 
let her stop weeping), for the angels had been shading him with their wings till he (i.e. the body of the 
martyr) was shifted away."
Bukhari:1294 Narrated `Abdullah:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps his cheeks, tears his clothes and follows the ways and traditions of the 
Days of Ignorance is not one of us."
Bukhari:1295 Narrated 'Amir bin Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:That his father said, "In the year of the last Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) I became seriously ill and the Prophet (ﷺ) 
used to visit me inquiring about my health. I told him, 'I am reduced to this state because of illness and 
I am wealthy and have no inheritors except a daughter, (In this narration the name of 'Amir bin Sa`d is 
mentioned and in fact it is a mistake; the narrator is `Aisha bint Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas). Should I give 
two-thirds of my property in charity?' He said, 'No.' I asked, 'Half?' He said, 'No.' then he added, 'Onethird, 
and even one-third is much. You'd better leave your inheritors wealthy rather than leaving them 
poor, begging others. You will get a reward for whatever you spend for Allah's sake, even for what 
you put in your wife's mouth.' I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will I be left alone after my companions 
have gone?' He said, 'If you are left behind, whatever good deeds you will do will upgrade you and 
raise you high. And perhaps you will have a long life so that some people will be benefited by you 
while others will be harmed by you. O Allah! Complete the emigration of my companions and do not 
turn them renegades.' But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt sorry for poor Sa`d bin Khaula as he died in Mecca." 
(but Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas lived long after the Prophet (p.b.u.h).)
Bukhari:1296 Narrated Abu Burda bin Abi Musa:Abu Musa got seriously ill, fainted and could not reply to his wife while he was lying with his head in her lap. When he came to his senses, he said, "I am innocent of those, of whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was innocent. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is innocent of a woman who cries aloud (or slaps her face) who shaves her head and who tear off her clothes (on the falling of a calamity)
Bukhari:1297 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps the cheeks, tears the clothes and follows the tradition of the Days of 
Ignorance is not from us."
Bukhari:1298 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps the cheeks, tears the clothes and follows the traditions of the Days of 
Ignorance is not from us."
Bukhari:1299 Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) got the news of the death of Ibn Haritha, Ja`far and Ibn Rawaha he sat down and 
looked sad and I was looking at him through the chink of the door. A man came and told him about 
the crying of the women of Ja`far. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to forbid them. The man went and came 
back saying that he had told them but they did not listen to him. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Forbid 
them." So again he went and came back for the third time and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, they 
did not listen to us at all." (`Aisha added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him to go and put dust in their 
mouths. I said, (to that man) "May Allah stick your nose in the dust (i.e. humiliate you)! You could 
neither (persuade the women to) fulfill the order of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) nor did you relieve Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
from fatigue. "
Bukhari:1300 Narrated Anas:When the reciters of Qur'an were martyred, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited Qunut for one month and I never 
saw him (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) so sad as he was on that day.
Bukhari:1301 Narrated Anas bin Malik:One of the sons of Abu Talha became sick and died and Abu Talha at that time was not at home. 
When his wife saw that he was dead, she prepared him (washed and shrouded him) and placed him 
somewhere in the house. When Abu Talha came, he asked, "How is the boy?" She said, "The child is 
quiet and I hope he is in peace." Abu Talha thought that she had spoken the truth. Abu Talha passed 
the night and in the morning took a bath and when he intended to go out, she told him that his son had 
died, Abu Talha offered the (morning) prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of what 
happened to them. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bless you concerning your night. (That is, may 
Allah bless you with good offspring)." Sufyan said, "One of the Ansar said, 'They (i.e. Abu Talha and 
his wife) had nine sons and all of them became reciters of the Qur'an (by heart).' "
Bukhari:1302 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The real patience is at the first stroke of a calamity."
Bukhari:1303 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) to the blacksmith Abu Saif, and he was the husband of the 
wet-nurse of Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took Ibrahim and kissed him and 
smelled him and later we entered Abu Saif's house and at that time Ibrahim was in his last breaths, and 
the eyes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) started shedding tears. `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf said, "O Allah's 
Apostle, even you are weeping!" He said, "O Ibn `Auf, this is mercy." Then he wept more and said, 
"The eyes are shedding tears and the heart is grieved, and we will not say except what pleases our 
Lord, O Ibrahim ! Indeed we are grieved by your separation."
Bukhari:1304 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Sa`d bin 'Ubada became sick and the Prophet (ﷺ) along with `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf, Sa`d bin Abi 
Waqqas and `Abdullah bin Mas`ud visited him to inquire about his health. When he came to him, he 
found him surrounded by his household and he asked, "Has he died?" They said, "No, O Allah's 
Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) wept and when the people saw the weeping of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) they all 
wept. He said, "Will you listen? Allah does not punish for shedding tears, nor for the grief of the heart 
but he punishes or bestows His Mercy because of this." He pointed to his tongue and added, "The 
deceased is punished for the wailing of his relatives over him." `Umar used to beat with a stick and 
throw stones and put dust over the faces (of those who used to wail over the dead).
Bukhari:1305 Narrated Aisha:When the news of the martyrdom of Zaid bin Haritha, Ja`far and `Abdullah bin Rawaha came, the 
Prophet sat down looking sad, and I was looking through the chink of the door. A man came and said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The women of Ja`far," and then he mentioned their crying . The Prophet (p.b.u.h) 
ordered him to stop them from crying. The man went and came back and said, "I tried to stop them but 
they disobeyed." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) ordered him for the second time to forbid them. He went again 
and came back and said, "They did not listen to me, (or "us": the sub-narrator Muhammad bin 
Haushab is in doubt as to which is right). " (`Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Put dust in their 
mouths." I said (to that man), "May Allah stick your nose in the dust (i.e. humiliate you)." By Allah, 
you could not (stop the women from crying) to fulfill the order, besides you did not relieve Allah's 
Apostle from fatigue."
Bukhari:1306 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:At the time of giving the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) one of the conditions was that we would 
not wail, but it was not fulfilled except by five women and they are Um Sulaim, Um Al-`Ala', the 
daughter of Abi Sabra (the wife of Mu`adh), and two other women; or the daughter of Abi Sabra and 
the wife of Mu`adh and another woman.
Bukhari:1307 Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you see a funeral procession, stand up till the procession goes ahead of 
you." Al-Humaidi added, "Till the coffin leaves you behind or is put down."
Bukhari:1308 Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you see a funeral procession and he is not going along with it, then he 
should stand and remain standing till he gets behind it, or it leaves him behind, or the coffin is put 
down before it goes ahead of him . "
Bukhari:1309 Narrated Sa`id Al-Maqburi:That his father said, "While we were accompanying a funeral procession, Abu Huraira got hold of the 
hand of Marwan and they sat down before the coffin was put down. Then Abu Sa`id came and took 
hold of Marwan's hand and said, "Get up. By Allah, no doubt this (i.e. Abu Huraira) knows that the 
Prophet forbade us to do that." Abu Huraira said, "He (Abu Sa`id) has spoken the truth."
Bukhari:1310 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you see a funeral procession, you should stand up, and whoever 
accompanies it should not sit till the coffin is put down."
Bukhari:1311 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A funeral procession passed in front of us and the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and we too stood up. We said, 'O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is the funeral procession of a Jew." He said, "Whenever you see a funeral 
procession, you should stand up."
Bukhari:1312 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Laila:Sahl bin Hunaif and Qais bin Sa`d were sitting in the city of Al-Qadisiya. A funeral procession passed 
in front of them and they stood up. They were told that funeral procession was of one of the 
inhabitants of the land i.e. of a non-believer, under the protection of Muslims. They said, "A funeral 
procession passed in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he stood up. When he was told that it was the coffin of a 
Jew, he said, "Is it not a living being (soul)?"
Bukhari:1313 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Laila:Sahl bin Hunaif and Qais bin Sa`d were sitting in the city of Al-Qadisiya. A funeral procession passed 
in front of them and they stood up. They were told that funeral procession was of one of the 
inhabitants of the land i.e. of a non-believer, under the protection of Muslims. They said, "A funeral 
procession passed in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he stood up. When he was told that it was the coffin of a 
Jew, he said, "Is it not a living being (soul)?"
Bukhari:1314 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, When the funeral is ready and the men carry it on their shoulders, if the deceased 
was righteous it will say, 'Present me (hurriedly),' and if he was not righteous, it will say, 'Woe to it 
(me)! Where are they taking it (me)?' Its voice is heard by everything except man and if he heard it he 
would fall unconscious."
Bukhari:1315 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Hurry up with the dead body for if it was righteous, you are forwarding it to 
welfare; and if it was otherwise, then you are putting off an evil thing down your necks."
Bukhari:1316 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a funeral is ready and the men carry the deceased on their necks (shoulders), 
if it was pious then it will say, 'Present me quickly', and if it was not pious, then it will say, 'Woe to it 
(me), where are they taking it (me)?' And its voice is heard by everything except mankind and if he 
heard it he would fall unconscious."
Bukhari:1317 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for An-Najashi and I was in the second or third row.
Bukhari:1318 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) informed his companions about the death of An-Najashi and then he went ahead 
(to lead the prayer) and the people lined up behind him in rows and he said four Takbir.
Bukhari:1319 Narrated Ash-Shaibani:Ash Shu`bi said, "I was informed by a man who had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) going to a grave that was 
separate from the other graves and he aligned the people in rows and said four Takbir." I said, "O Abu 
`Amr! who narrated (that) to you"? He said, "Ibn `Abbas. "
Bukhari:1320 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Today a pious man from Ethiopia (i.e. An Najashi) has expired, come on to offer 
the funeral prayer." (Jabir said): We lined up in rows and after that the Prophet (ﷺ) led the prayer and we 
were in rows. Jabir added, I was in the second row."
Bukhari:1321 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a grave of a deceased who had been buried at night. He said, "When was 
this (deceased) buried?" The people said, "Yesterday." He said, "Why did you not inform me?" They 
said, "We buried him when it was dark and so we disliked to wake you up." He stood up and we lined 
up behind him. (Ibn `Abbas said): I was one of them, and the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer.
Bukhari:1322 Narrated Ash-Shaibani:Ash-Shu`bi said, "Somebody who passed along with your Prophet (p.b.u.h) by a grave that was 
separate from the other graves informed me (saying), "The Prophet (ﷺ) 
led us (in the prayer) and we aligned behind him." We said, "O Abu `Amr! Who told you this 
narration?" He replied, "Ibn `Abbas."
Bukhari:1323 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar was told that Abu Huraira said, "Whoever accompanies the funeral procession will have a 
reward equal to one Qirat." Ibn `Umar said, "Abu Huraira talks of a too enormous reward." Aisha 
attested Abu Huraira's narration and said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like that." Ibn `Umar said, 
"We have lost numerous Qirats."
Bukhari:1324 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar was told that Abu Huraira said, "Whoever accompanies the funeral procession will have a 
reward equal to one Qirat." Ibn `Umar said, "Abu Huraira talks of a too enormous reward." Aisha 
attested Abu Huraira's narration and said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like that." Ibn `Umar said, 
"We have lost numerous Qirats."
Bukhari:1325 Narrated Abu Huraira:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever attends the funeral procession till he offers the funeral 
prayer for it, will get a reward equal to one Qirat, and whoever accompanies it till burial, will get a 
reward equal to two Qirats." It was asked, "What are two Qirats?" He replied, "Like two huge 
mountains."
Bukhari:1326 Narrated 'Amir:Ibn `Abbas (who was at that time a boy) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to a grave and the people said, 
'He or she was buried yesterday.' " Ibn `Abbas added, "We aligned behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and he led the 
funeral prayer of the deceased."
Bukhari:1327 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed about the news of the death of An-Najash (King of Ethiopia) on the day he 
expired. He said, "Ask Allah's forgiveness for your brother. " Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) 
made them align in rows at the Musalla and said four Takbir.
Bukhari:1328 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed about the news of the death of An-Najash (King of Ethiopia) on the day he 
expired. He said, "Ask Allah's forgiveness for your brother. " Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) 
made them align in rows at the Musalla and said four Takbir.
Bukhari:1329 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Jew brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) a man and a woman from amongst them who have committed 
(adultery) illegal sexual intercourse. He ordered both of them to be stoned (to death), near the place of 
offering the funeral prayers beside the mosque."
Bukhari:1330 Narrated `Urwa:Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) in his fatal illness said, 'Allah cursed the Jews and the Christians because 
they took the graves of their Prophets as places for praying."' Aisha added, "Had it not been for that, 
the grave of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) would have been made prominent but I am afraid it might be taken 
(as a) place for praying.
Bukhari:1331 Narrated Samura bin Jundab:I offered the funeral prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) for a woman who had died during childbirth and he 
stood up by the middle of the coffin.
Bukhari:1332 Narrated Samura bin Jundab:I offered the funeral prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) for a woman who had died during childbirth and he 
stood up by the middle of the coffin.
Bukhari:1333 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed about the news of the death of An-Najash on the day he died. He went out 
with us to the Musalla and we aligned in rows and he said four Takbirs for An-Najashi's funeral 
prayer.
Bukhari:1334 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer of As-Hama An-Najash and said four Takbir.
Bukhari:1335 Narrated Talha bin `Abdullah bin `Auf:I offered the funeral prayer behind Ibn `Abbas and he recited Al-Fatiha and said, "You should know 
that it (i.e. recitation of Al-Fatiha) is the tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ) Muhammad.
Bukhari:1336 Narrated Sulaiman Ash-Shaibani:I heard Ash-Shu`bi saying, "I was told by a man who had passed with the Prophet (p.b.u.h) by a grave 
that was separate from the other graves that he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) led them in the prayer and they prayed 
behind him." I said, "O Abu `Amr! Who narrated that to you?" He replied, "Ibn `Abbas."
Bukhari:1337 Narrated Abu Huraira:A black person, a male or a female used to clean the Mosque and then died. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) did 
not know about it . One day the Prophet (ﷺ) remembered him and said, "What happened to that person?" 
The people replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He died." He said, "Why did you not inform me?" They said, 
"His story was so and so (i.e. regarded him as insignificant)." He said, "Show me his grave." He then 
went to his grave and offered the funeral prayer.
Bukhari:1338 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a human being is laid in his grave and his companions return and he even 
hears their foot steps, two angels come to him and make him sit and ask him: What did you use to say 
about this man, Muhammad ? He will say: I testify that he is Allah's slave and His Apostle. Then it 
will be said to him, 'Look at your place in the Hell-Fire. Allah has given you a place in Paradise 
instead of it.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The dead person will see both his places. But a non-believer or a 
hypocrite will say to the angels, 'I do not know, but I used to say what the people used to say! It will 
be said to him, 'Neither did you know nor did you take the guidance (by reciting the Qur'an).' Then he 
will be hit with an iron hammer between his two ears, and he will cry and that cry will be heard by 
whatever approaches him except human beings and jinns."
Bukhari:1339 Narrated Abu Huraira:The angel of death was sent to Moses and when he went to him, Moses slapped him severely, spoiling 
one of his eyes. The angel went back to his Lord, and said, "You sent me to a slave who does not want 
to die." Allah restored his eye and said, "Go back and tell him (i.e. Moses) to place his hand over the 
back of an ox, for he will be allowed to live for a number of years equal to the number of hairs coming 
under his hand." (So the angel came to him and told him the same). Then Moses asked, "O my Lord! 
What will be then?" He said, "Death will be then." He said, "(Let it be) now." He asked Allah that He 
bring him near the Sacred Land at a distance of a stone's throw. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Were I 
there I would show you the grave of Moses by the way near the red sand hill."
Bukhari:1340 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) offered the funeral prayer of a man one night after he was buried, he and his 
companions stood up (for the Prayer). He had asked them about him before standing, saying, "Who is 
this?" They said, "He is so and so and was buried last night." So all of them offered the funeral prayer.
Bukhari:1341 Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) became ill, some of his wives talked about a church which they had seen in 
Ethiopia and it was called Mariya. Um Salma and Um Habiba had been to Ethiopia, and both of them 
narrated its (the Church's) beauty and the pictures it contained. The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his head and said, 
"Those are the people who, whenever a pious man dies amongst them, make a place of worship at his 
grave and then they make those pictures in it. Those are the worst creatures in the Sight of Allah."
Bukhari:1342 Narrated Anas:We were in the funeral procession of the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting 
near the grave and I saw his eyes full of tears. He said, "Is there anyone amongst you who did not 
have sexual relations with his wife last night?" Abu Talha replied in the affirmative. And so Allah's 
Apostle told him to get down in her grave and he got down in her grave and buried her.
Bukhari:1343 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) collected every two martyrs of Uhud in one piece of cloth, then he would ask, "Which of 
them had (knew) more of the Qur'an?" When one of them was pointed out for him, he would put that 
one first in the grave and say, "I will be a witness on these on the Day of Resurrection." He ordered 
them to be buried with their blood on their bodies and they were neither washed nor was a funeral 
prayer offered for them.
Bukhari:1344 Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:One day the Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the funeral prayers of the martyrs of Uhud and then went up 
the pulpit and said, "I will pave the way for you as your predecessor and will be a witness on you. By 
Allah! I see my Fount (Kauthar) just now and I have been given the keys of all the treasures of the 
earth (or the keys of the earth). By Allah! I am not afraid that you will worship others along with 
Allah after my death, but I am afraid that you will fight with one another for the worldly things."
Bukhari:1345 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) buried every two martyrs in of Uhud in one grave.
Bukhari:1346 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bury them (i.e. martyrs) with their blood." (that was) On the day of the Battle of 
Uhud. He did not get them washed.
Bukhari:1347 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) shrouded every two martyrs of Uhud in one piece of cloth and then he would ask, 
"Which of them knew more Qur'an?" When one of them was pointed out he would put him first in the 
grave. He said, "I am a witness on these." Then he ordered them to be buried with blood on their 
bodies. Neither did he offer their funeral prayer nor did he get them washed. (Jabir bin `Abdullah 
added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ask about the martyrs of Uhud as to which of them knew more of the 
Qur'an." And when one of them was pointed out as having more of it he would put him first in the 
grave and then his companions. (Jabir added): My father and my uncle were shrouded in one sheet.
Bukhari:1348 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) shrouded every two martyrs of Uhud in one piece of cloth and then he would ask, 
"Which of them knew more Qur'an?" When one of them was pointed out he would put him first in the 
grave. He said, "I am a witness on these." Then he ordered them to be buried with blood on their 
bodies. Neither did he offer their funeral prayer nor did he get them washed. (Jabir bin `Abdullah 
added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ask about the martyrs of Uhud as to which of them knew more of the 
Qur'an." And when one of them was pointed out as having more of it he would put him first in the 
grave and then his companions. (Jabir added): My father and my uncle were shrouded in one sheet.
Bukhari:1349 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has made Mecca a sanctuary (sacred place) and it was a sanctuary before me 
and will be so after me. It was made legal for me (to fight in it) for a few hours of the day. None is 
allowed to uproot its thorny shrubs or to cut its trees or to chase its game or to pick up its fallen things 
except by a person who announces it publicly." On that Al-Abbas said (to the Prophet), "Except Al- 
Idhkhir for our goldsmiths and for our graves." And so the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Except Al-Idhkhir. " And 
Abu Huraira narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Except Al-Idhkhir for our graves and houses." And Ibn 
`Abbas said, "For their goldsmiths and houses."
Bukhari:1350 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to `Abdullah bin Ubai (a hypocrite) after his death and he has been laid in his pit 
(grave). He ordered (that he be taken out of the grave) and he was taken out. Then he placed him on 
his knees and threw some of his saliva on him and clothed him in his (the Prophet's) own shirt. Allah 
knows better (why he did so). `Abdullah bin Ubai had given his shirt to Al-Abbas to wear. Abu Harun 
said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at that time had two shirts and the son of `Abdullah bin Ubai said to him, 'O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Clothe my father in your shirt which has been in contact with your skin.' ' Sufyan 
added, "Thus people think that the Prophet (ﷺ) clothed `Abdullah bin Tubal in his shirt in lieu of what he 
(Abdullah) had done (for Al `Abbas, the Prophet's uncle.)"
Bukhari:1351 Narrated Jabir:When the time of the Battle of Uhud approached, my father called me at night and said, "I think that I 
will be the first amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) to be martyred. I do not leave anyone after me 
dearer to me than you, except Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)'s soul and I owe some debt and you should repay it and 
treat your sisters favorably (nicely and politely)." So in the morning he was the first to be martyred 
and was buried along with another (martyr). I did not like to leave him with the other (martyr) so I 
took him out of the grave after six months of his burial and he was in the same condition as he was on 
the day of burial, except a slight change near his ear.
Bukhari:1352 Narrated Jabir:A man was buried along with my father and I did not like it till I took him (i.e. my father) out and 
buried him in a separate grave.
Bukhari:1353 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) collected every two martyrs of Uhud (in one grave) and then he would ask, "Which of 
them knew the Qur'an more?" And if one of them was pointed out for him as having more knowledge, 
he would put him first in the Lahd. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be a witness on these on the Day of 
Resurrection." Then he ordered them to be buried with their blood on their bodies and he did not have 
them washed.
Bukhari:1354 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar set out along with the Prophet (p.b.u.h) with a group of people to Ibn Saiyad till they saw him 
playing with the boys near the hillocks of Bani Mughala. Ibn Saiyad at that time was nearing his 
puberty and did not notice (us) until the Prophet (ﷺ) stroked him with his hand and said to him, "Do you 
testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the 
Messenger of illiterates." Then Ibn Saiyad asked the Prophet (p.b.u.h), "Do you testify that I am 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (p.b.u.h) refuted it and said, "I believe in Allah and His Apostles." 
Then he said (to Ibn Saiyad), "What do you think?" Ibn Saiyad answered, "True people and liars visit 
me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have been confused as to this matter." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I 
have kept something (in my mind) for you, (can you tell me that?)" Ibn Saiyad said, "It is Al-Dukh 
(the smoke)." (2) The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let you be in ignominy. You cannot cross your limits." On that 
`Umar, said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop his head off." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "If he is 
he (i.e. Dajjal), then you cannot overpower him, and if he is not, then there is no use of murdering 
him." (Ibn `Umar added): Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) once again went along with Ubai bin 
Ka`b to the date-palm trees (garden) where Ibn Saiyad was staying. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) wanted to 
hear something from Ibn Saiyad before Ibn Saiyad could see him, and the Prophet (p.b.u.h) saw him 
lying covered with a sheet and from where his murmurs were heard. Ibn Saiyad's mother saw Allah's 
Apostle while he was hiding himself behind the trunks of the date-palm trees. She addressed Ibn 
Saiyad, "O Saf ! (and this was the name of Ibn Saiyad) Here is Muhammad." And with that Ibn Saiyad 
got up. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had this woman left him (Had she not disturbed him), then Ibn Saiyad 
would have revealed the reality of his case.
Bukhari:1355 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar set out along with the Prophet (p.b.u.h) with a group of people to Ibn Saiyad till they saw him 
playing with the boys near the hillocks of Bani Mughala. Ibn Saiyad at that time was nearing his 
puberty and did not notice (us) until the Prophet (ﷺ) stroked him with his hand and said to him, "Do you 
testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the 
Messenger of illiterates." Then Ibn Saiyad asked the Prophet (p.b.u.h), "Do you testify that I am 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (p.b.u.h) refuted it and said, "I believe in Allah and His Apostles." 
Then he said (to Ibn Saiyad), "What do you think?" Ibn Saiyad answered, "True people and liars visit 
me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have been confused as to this matter." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I 
have kept something (in my mind) for you, (can you tell me that?)" Ibn Saiyad said, "It is Al-Dukh 
(the smoke)." (2) The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let you be in ignominy. You cannot cross your limits." On that 
`Umar, said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop his head off." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "If he is 
he (i.e. Dajjal), then you cannot overpower him, and if he is not, then there is no use of murdering 
him." (Ibn `Umar added): Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) once again went along with Ubai bin 
Ka`b to the date-palm trees (garden) where Ibn Saiyad was staying. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) wanted to 
hear something from Ibn Saiyad before Ibn Saiyad could see him, and the Prophet (p.b.u.h) saw him 
lying covered with a sheet and from where his murmurs were heard. Ibn Saiyad's mother saw Allah's 
Apostle while he was hiding himself behind the trunks of the date-palm trees. She addressed Ibn 
Saiyad, "O Saf ! (and this was the name of Ibn Saiyad) Here is Muhammad." And with that Ibn Saiyad 
got up. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had this woman left him (Had she not disturbed him), then Ibn Saiyad 
would have revealed the reality of his case.
Bukhari:1356 Narrated Anas:A young Jewish boy used to serve the Prophet (ﷺ) and he became sick. So the Prophet (ﷺ) went to visit him. 
He sat near his head and asked him to embrace Islam. The boy looked at his father, who was sitting 
there; the latter told him to obey Abul-Qasim and the boy embraced Islam. The Prophet (ﷺ) came out 
saying: "Praises be to Allah Who saved the boy from the Hell-fire."
Bukhari:1357 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:My mother and I were among the weak and oppressed. I from among the children, and my mother 
from among the women.
Bukhari:1358 Narrated Ibn Shihab:The funeral prayer should be offered for every child even if he were the son of a prostitute as he was 
born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone). If his parents are Muslims, 
particularly the father, even if his mother were a non-Muslim, and if he after the delivery cries (even 
once) before his death (i.e. born alive) then the funeral prayer must be offered. And if the child does 
not cry after his delivery (i.e. born dead) then his funeral prayer should not be offered, and he will be 
considered as a miscarriage. Abu Huraira, narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a 
true faith (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone) but his parents convert him to Judaism or to 
Christianity or to Magainism, as an animal delivers a perfect baby animal. Do you find it mutilated?" 
Then Abu Huraira recited the holy verses: 'The pure Allah's Islamic nature (true faith i.e. to worship 
none but Allah Alone), with which He has created human beings.' " (30.30).
Bukhari:1359 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah 
Alone) but his parents convert him to Judaism, Christianity or Magainism, as an animal delivers a 
perfect baby animal. Do you find it mutilated?" Then Abu Huraira recited the holy verses: "The pure 
Allah's Islamic nature (true faith of Islam) (i.e. worshipping none but Allah) with which He has 
created human beings. No change let there be in the religion of Allah (i.e. joining none in worship 
with Allah). That is the straight religion (Islam) but most of men know, not." (30.30)
Bukhari:1360 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab from his father:When the time of the death of Abu Talib approached, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to him and found Abu Jahl 
bin Hisham and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya bin Al-Mughira by his side. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Abu 
Talib, "O uncle! Say: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, a sentence with which I shall be 
a witness (i.e. argue) for you before Allah. Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya said, "O Abu 
Talib! Are you going to denounce the religion of `Abdul Muttalib?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on inviting 
Abu Talib to say it (i.e. 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah') while they (Abu Jahl and 
`Abdullah) kept on repeating their statement till Abu Talib said as his last statement that he was on the 
religion of `Abdul Muttalib and refused to say, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.' (Then 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I will keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for you unless I am forbidden (by 
Allah) to do so." So Allah revealed (the verse) concerning him (i.e. It is not fitting for the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
those who believe that they should invoke (Allah) for forgiveness for pagans even though they be of 
kin, after it has become clear to them that they are companions of the fire (9.113).
Bukhari:1361 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once passed by two graves, and those two persons (in the graves) were being tortured. He 
said, "They are being tortured not for a great thing (to avoid). One of them never saved himself from 
being soiled with his urine, while the other went about committing slander (to make enmity between 
friends). He then took a green leaf of a date-palm tree split it into two pieces and fixed one on each 
grave. The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have you done so?" He replied, "I hope that their 
punishment may be lessened till they (the leaf) become dry."
Bukhari:1362 Narrated `Ali:" We were accompanying a funeral procession in Baqi-I-Gharqad. The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and sat and 
we sat around him. He had a small stick in his hand then he bent his head and started scraping the 
ground with it. He then said, "There is none among you, and not a created soul, but has place either in 
Paradise or in Hell assigned for him and it is also determined for him whether he will be among the 
blessed or wretched." A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should we not depend on what has been 
written for us and leave the deeds as whoever amongst us is blessed will do the deeds of a blessed 
person and whoever amongst us will be wretched, will do the deeds of a wretched person?" The 
Prophet said, "The good deeds are made easy for the blessed, and bad deeds are made easy for the 
wretched." Then he recited the Verses:-- "As for him who gives (in charity) and is Allah-fearing And 
believes in the Best reward from Allah. " (92.5-6)
Bukhari:1363 Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever intentionally swears falsely by a religion other than Islam, then 
he is what he has said, (e.g. if he says, 'If such thing is not true then I am a Jew,' he is really a Jew). 
And whoever commits suicide with piece of iron will be punished with the same piece of iron in the 
Hell Fire." Narrated Jundab the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man was inflicted with wounds and he committed 
suicide, and so Allah said: My slave has caused death on himself hurriedly, so I forbid Paradise for 
him."
Bukhari:1364 Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever intentionally swears falsely by a religion other than Islam, then 
he is what he has said, (e.g. if he says, 'If such thing is not true then I am a Jew,' he is really a Jew). 
And whoever commits suicide with piece of iron will be punished with the same piece of iron in the 
Hell Fire." Narrated Jundab the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man was inflicted with wounds and he committed 
suicide, and so Allah said: My slave has caused death on himself hurriedly, so I forbid Paradise for 
him."
Bukhari:1365 Narrated Abu Huraira-:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who commits suicide by throttling shall keep on throttling himself in the Hell 
Fire (forever) and he who commits suicide by stabbing himself shall keep on stabbing himself in the 
Hell-Fire."
Bukhari:1366 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:When `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) was called upon to offer his funeral 
prayer. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up to offer the prayer, I got up quickly and said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Are you going to pray for Ibn Ubai and he said so and so on such and such occasions?" And 
started mentioning all that he had said. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled and said, "O `Umar! Go away from 
me." When I talked too much he said, "I have been given the choice and so I have chosen (to offer the 
prayer). Had I known that he would be forgiven by asking for Allah's forgiveness for more than 
seventy times, surely I would have done so." (`Umar added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered his funeral 
prayer and returned and after a short while the two verses of Surat Bara' were revealed: i.e. "And 
never (O Muhammad) pray for any of them who dies . . . (to the end of the verse) rebellion (9.84)" -- 
(`Umar added), "Later I astonished at my daring before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on that day. And Allah and 
His Apostle know better."
Bukhari:1367 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A funeral procession passed and the people praised the deceased. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has been 
affirmed to him." Then another funeral procession passed and the people spoke badly of the deceased. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has been affirmed to him". `Umar bin Al-Khattab asked (Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) ), "What has been affirmed?" He replied, "You praised this, so Paradise has been affirmed to 
him; and you spoke badly of this, so Hell has been affirmed to him. You people are Allah's witnesses 
on earth."
Bukhari:1368 Narrated Abu Al-Aswad:I came to Medina when an epidemic had broken out. While I was sitting with `Umar bin Al-Khattab a 
funeral procession passed by and the people praised the deceased. `Umar said, "It has been affirmed to 
him." And another funeral procession passed by and the people praised the deceased. `Umar said, "It 
has been affirmed to him." A third (funeral procession) passed by and the people spoke badly of the 
deceased. He said, "It has been affirmed to him." I (Abu Al-Aswad) asked, "O chief of the believers! 
What has been affirmed?" He replied, "I said the same as the Prophet (ﷺ) had said, that is: if four persons 
testify the piety of a Muslim, Allah will grant him Paradise." We asked, "If three persons testify his 
piety?" He (the Prophet) replied, "Even three." Then we asked, "If two?" He replied, "Even two." We 
did not ask him regarding one witness.
Bukhari:1369 Narrated Al-Bara' bin 'Azib :The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "When a faithful believer is made to sit 
     in his grave, then (the angels) come to him and he testifies that none
     has the right to be worshipped but Allah and Muhammad is Allah's 
     Apostle. And that corresponds to Allah's statement: Allah will keep 
     firm those who believe with the word that stands firm . . . (14.27).Narrated Shu'ba:Same as above and added, "Allah will keep firm those who believe . . .
     (14.27) was revealed concerning the punishment of the grave."
Bukhari:1370 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at the people of the well (the well in which the bodies of the pagans killed in the 
Battle of Badr were thrown) and said, "Have you found true what your Lord promised you?" 
Somebody said to him, "You are addressing dead people." He replied, "You do not hear better than 
they but they cannot reply."
Bukhari:1371 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They now realize that what I used to tell them was the truth. "And Allah said, 
'Verily! You cannot make the dead to hear (i.e. benefit them, and similarly the disbelievers) nor can 
you make the deaf hear. (27.80).
Bukhari:1372 Narrated Masruq:`Aisha said that a Jewess came to her and mentioned the punishment in the grave, saying to her, "May 
Allah protect you from the punishment of the grave." `Aisha then asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the 
punishment of the grave. He said, "Yes, (there is) punishment in the grave." `Aisha added, "After that 
I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) but seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment in the grave in every 
prayer he prayed."
Bukhari:1373 Narrated Asma' bint Abi Bakr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once stood up delivering a sermon and mentioned the trial which people will face in 
the grave. When he mentioned that, the Muslims started shouting loudly.
Bukhari:1374 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When (Allah's) slave is put in his grave and his companions return and he even 
hears their footsteps, two angels come to him and make him sit and ask, 'What did you use to say 
about this man (i.e. Muhammad)?' The faithful Believer will say, 'I testify that he is Allah's slave and 
His Apostle.' Then they will say to him, 'Look at your place in the Hell Fire; Allah has given you a 
place in Paradise instead of it.' So he will see both his places." (Qatada said, "We were informed that 
his grave would be made spacious." Then Qatada went back to the narration of Anas who said;) 
Whereas a hypocrite or a non-believer will be asked, "What did you use to say about this man." He 
will reply, "I do not know; but I used to say what the people used to say." So they will say to him, 
"Neither did you know nor did you take the guidance (by reciting the Qur'an)." Then he will be hit 
with iron hammers once, that he will send such a cry as everything near to him will hear, except Jinns 
and human beings. (See Hadith No. 422).
Bukhari:1375 Narrated Abi Aiyub:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went out after sunset and heard a dreadful voice, and said, "The Jews are being 
punished in their graves."
Bukhari:1376 Narrated Musa bin `Uqba:(From the daughter of Khalid bin Sa id bin Al-`Asi) who said that she had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking 
refuge with Allah from the punishment in the grave.
Bukhari:1377 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke (Allah): "Allahumma ini a`udhu bika min 'adhabi-l-Qabr, wa min 
'adhabi-nnar, wa min fitnati-l-mahya wa-lmamat, wa min fitnati-l-masih ad-dajjal. (O Allah! I seek 
refuge with you from the punishment in the grave and from the punishment in the Hell fire and from 
the afflictions of life and death, and the afflictions of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal."
Bukhari:1378 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once passed by two graves and said, "They (the deceased persons in those graves) are 
being tortured not for a great thing to avoid." And then added, "Yes, (they are being punished for a big 
sin), for one of them used to go about with calumnies while the other never saved himself from being 
soiled with his urine." (Ibn `Abbas added): Then he took a green leaf of a date-palm) and split it into 
two pieces and fixed one piece on each grave and said, "May their punishment be abated till these 
(two pieces) get dry."
Bukhari:1379 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you dies, he is shown his place both in the morning and in the 
evening. If he is one of the people of Paradise; he is shown his place in it, and if he is from the people 
of the Hell-Fire; he is shown his place there-in. Then it is said to him, 'This is your place till Allah 
resurrect you on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:1380 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the funeral is ready (for its burial) and the people lift it on their shoulders, 
then if the deceased is a righteous person he says, 'Take me ahead,' and if he is not a righteous one 
then he says, 'Woe to it (me)! Where are you taking it (me)?' And his voice is audible to everything 
except human beings; and if they heard it they would fall down unconscious . "
Bukhari:1381 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Any Muslim whose three children died before the age of puberty will 
be granted Paradise by Allah because of His mercy to them."
Bukhari:1382 Narrated Al-Bara':When Ibrahim (the son of Prophet) expired, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet-nurse for him in 
Paradise."
Bukhari:1383 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) was asked about the children of (Mushrikeen) pagans. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 
"Since Allah created them, He knows what sort of deeds they would have done."
Bukhari:1384 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the offspring of pagans (Mushrikeen); so he said, "Allah knows what 
sort of deeds they would have done."
Bukhari:1385 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone) 
and his parents convert him to Judaism or Christianity or Magianism, as an animal delivers a perfect 
baby animal. Do you find it mutilated?"
Bukhari:1386 Narrated Samura bin Jundab:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the (morning) prayer, he would face us and ask, "Who amongst you 
had a dream last night?" So if anyone had seen a dream he would narrate it. The Prophet (ﷺ) would say: 
"Ma sha'a-llah" (An Arabic maxim meaning literally, 'What Allah wished,' and it indicates a good 
omen.) One day, he asked us whether anyone of us had seen a dream. We replied in the negative. The 
Prophet said, "But I had seen (a dream) last night that two men came to me, caught hold of my hands, 
and took me to the Sacred Land (Jerusalem). There, I saw a person sitting and another standing with 
an iron hook in his hand pushing it inside the mouth of the former till it reached the jawbone, and then 
tore off one side of his cheek, and then did the same with the other side; in the meantime the first side 
of his cheek became normal again and then he repeated the same operation again. I said, 'What is 
this?' They told me to proceed on and we went on till we came to a man Lying flat on his back, and 
another man standing at his head carrying a stone or a piece of rock, and crushing the head of the 
Lying man, with that stone. Whenever he struck him, the stone rolled away. 
The man went to pick it up and by the time he returned to him, the crushed head had returned to its 
normal state and the man came back and struck him again (and so on). I said, 'Who is this?' They told 
me to proceed on; so we proceeded on and passed by a hole like an oven; with a narrow top and wide 
bottom, and the fire was kindling underneath that hole. Whenever the fire-flame went up, the people 
were lifted up to such an extent that they about to get out of it, and whenever the fire got quieter, the 
people went down into it, and there were naked men and women in it. I said, 'Who is this?' They told 
me to proceed on. So we proceeded on till we reached a river of blood and a man was in it, and 
another man was standing at its bank with stones in front of him, facing the man standing in the river. 
Whenever the man in the river wanted to come out, the other one threw a stone in his mouth and 
caused him to retreat to his original position; and so whenever he wanted to come out the other would 
throw a stone in his mouth, and he would retreat to his original position. I asked, 'What is this?' They 
told me to proceed on and we did so till we reached a well-flourished green garden having a huge tree 
and near its root was sitting an old man with some children. (I saw) Another man near the tree with 
fire in front of him and he was kindling it up. Then they (i.e. my two companions) made me climb up 
the tree and made me enter a house, better than which I have ever seen. In it were some old men and 
young men, women and children. 
Then they took me out of this house and made me climb up the tree and made me enter another house 
that was better and superior (to the first) containing old and young people. I said to them (i.e. my two 
companions), 'You have made me ramble all the night. Tell me all about that I have seen.' They said, 
'Yes. As for the one whose cheek you saw being torn away, he was a liar and he used to tell lies, and 
the people would report those lies on his authority till they spread all over the world. So, he will be 
punished like that till the Day of Resurrection. 
The one whose head you saw being crushed is the one whom Allah had given the knowledge of 
Qur'an (i.e. knowing it by heart) but he used to sleep at night (i.e. he did not recite it then) and did not 
use to act upon it (i.e. upon its orders etc.) by day; and so this punishment will go on till the Day of 
Resurrection. And those you saw in the hole (like oven) were adulterers (those men and women who 
commit illegal sexual intercourse). And those you saw in the river of blood were those dealing in Riba 
(usury). And the old man who was sitting at the base of the tree was Abraham and the little children 
around him were the offspring of the people. And the one who was kindling the fire was Malik, the 
gatekeeper of the Hell-fire. And the first house in which you have gone was the house of the common 
believers, and the second house was of the martyrs. I am Gabriel and this is Michael. Raise your head.' 
I raised my head and saw a thing like a cloud over me. They said, 'That is your place.' I said, 'Let me 
enter my place.' They said, 'You still have some life which you have not yet completed, and when you 
complete (that remaining portion of your life) you will then enter your place.' "
Bukhari:1387 Narrated Hisham's father:Aisha said, "I went to Abu Bakr (during his fatal illness) and he asked me, 'In how many garments 
was the Prophet (ﷺ) shrouded?' She replied, 'In three Suhuliya pieces of white cloth of cotton, and there 
was neither a shirt nor a turban among them.' Abu Bakr further asked her, 'On which day did the 
Prophet die?' She replied, 'He died on Monday.' He asked, 'What is today?' She replied, 'Today is 
Monday.' He added, 'I hope I shall die sometime between this morning and tonight.' Then he looked at 
a garment that he was wearing during his illness and it had some stains of saffron. Then he said, 'Wash 
this garment of mine and add two more garments and shroud me in them.' I said, 'This is worn out.' He 
said, 'A living person has more right to wear new clothes than a dead one; the shroud is only for the 
body's pus.' He did not die till it was the night of Tuesday and was buried before the morning."
Bukhari:1388 Narrated Aisha:A man said to the Prophet (p.b.u.h), "My mother died suddenly and I thought that if she had lived she 
would have given alms. So, if I give alms now on her behalf, will she get the reward?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied in the affirmative.
Bukhari:1389 Narrated `Aisha:During his sickness, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asking repeatedly, "Where am I today? Where will I be 
tomorrow?" And I was waiting for the day of my turn (impatiently). Then, when my turn came, Allah 
took his soul away (in my lap) between my chest and arms and he was buried in my house.
Bukhari:1390 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his fatal illness said, "Allah cursed the Jews and the Christians, for they built the 
places of worship at the graves of their prophets." And if that had not been the case, then the Prophet's 
grave would have been made prominent before the people. So (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) was afraid, or the people 
were afraid that his grave might be taken as a place for worship.
Bukhari:1391 Aisha narrated that she made a 
will to `Abdullah bin Zubair, "Do not bury me with them (the Prophet (ﷺ) and his two companions) but 
bury me with my companions (wives of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ) in Al-Baqi as I would not like to be 
looked upon as better than I really am (by being buried near the Prophet)."
Bukhari:1392 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun Al-Audi:I saw `Umar bin Al-Khattab (when he was stabbed) saying, "O `Abdullah bin `Umar! Go to the 
mother of the believers Aisha and say, `Umar bin Al-Khattab sends his greetings to you,' and request 
her to allow me to be buried with my companions." (So, Ibn `Umar conveyed the message to `Aisha.) 
She said, "I had the idea of having this place for myself but today I prefer him (`Umar) to myself (and 
allow him to be buried there)." When `Abdullah bin `Umar returned, `Umar asked him, "What (news) 
do you have?" He replied, "O chief of the believers! She has allowed you (to be buried there)." On 
that `Umar said, "Nothing was more important to me than to be buried in that (sacred) place. So, when 
I expire, carry me there and pay my greetings to her (`Aisha ) and say, `Umar bin Al-Khattab asks 
permission; and if she gives permission, then bury me (there) and if she does not, then take me to the 
graveyard of the Muslims. I do not think any person has more right for the caliphate than those with 
whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) was always pleased till his death. And whoever is chosen by the 
people after me will be the caliph, and you people must listen to him and obey him," and then he 
mentioned the name of `Uthman, `Ali, Talha, Az-Zubair, `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and Sa`d bin Abi 
Waqqas. 
By this time a young man from Ansar came and said, "O chief of the believers! Be happy with Allah's 
glad tidings. The grade which you have in Islam is known to you, then you became the caliph and you 
ruled with justice and then you have been awarded martyrdom after all this." `Umar replied, "O son of 
my brother! Would that all that privileges will counterbalance (my short comings), so that I neither 
lose nor gain anything. I recommend my successor to be good to the early emigrants and realize their 
rights and to protect their honor and sacred things. And I also recommend him to be good to the Ansar 
who before them, had homes (in Medina) and had adopted the Faith. He should accept the good of the 
righteous among them and should excuse their wrongdoers. I recommend him to abide by the rules 
and regulations concerning the Dhimmis (protectees) of Allah and His Apostle, to fulfill their 
contracts completely and fight for them and not to tax (overburden) them beyond their capabilities."
Bukhari:1393 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Don't abuse the dead, because they have reached the result of what they 
forwarded."
Bukhari:1394 Narrated Ibn `Abbas.:Abu Lahab, may Allah curse him, once said to the Prophet (p.b.u.h), "Perish you all the day." 
Then the Divine Inspiration came: "Perish the hands of Abi Lahab! And perish he!" (111.1).
Bukhari:1395 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh to Yemen and said, "Invite the people to testify that none has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah and I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and if they obey you to do so, then teach them that 
Allah has enjoined on them five prayers in every day and night (in twenty-four hours), and if they 
obey you to do so, then teach them that Allah has made it obligatory for them to pay the Zakat from 
their property and it is to be taken from the wealthy among them and given to the poor."
Bukhari:1396 Narrated Abu Aiyub:A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Tell me of such a deed as will make me enter Paradise." The people said, 
"What is the matter with him? What is the matter with him?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He has something to 
ask. (What he needs greatly) The Prophet (ﷺ) said: (In order to enter Paradise) you should worship Allah 
and do not ascribe any partners to Him, offer prayer perfectly, pay the Zakat and keep good relations 
with your Kith and kin." (See Hadith No. 12, Vol 8).
Bukhari:1397 Narrated Abu Huraira:A Bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Tell me of such a deed as will make me enter Paradise, if I 
do it." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Worship Allah, and worship none along with Him, offer the (five) 
prescribed compulsory prayers perfectly, pay the compulsory Zakat, and fast the month of Ramadan." 
The Bedouin said, "By Him, in Whose Hands my life is, I will not do more than this." When he (the 
Bedouin) left, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever likes to see a man of Paradise, then he may look at this 
man."Narrated Abu Zur'a:From the Prophet (ﷺ) the same as above.
Bukhari:1398 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A delegation of the tribe of `Abdul Qais came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are 
from the tribe of Rabi`a, and the infidels of the tribe of Mudar stands between us and you; so we 
cannot come to you except during the Sacred Months. Please order us to do something (religious 
deeds) which we may carry out and also invite to it our people whom we have left behind." The 
Prophet said, "I order you to do four things and forbid you four others: (I order you) to have faith in 
Allah, and confess that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, (and the Prophet (ﷺ) gestured with 
his hand like this (i.e. one knot) and to offer prayers perfectly and to pay the Zakat, and to pay onefifth 
of the booty in Allah's Cause. And I forbid you to use Dubba', Hantam, Naqir and Muzaffat (all 
these are the names of utensils used for preparing alcoholic drinks)."
Bukhari:1399 Narrated Abu Huraira:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died and Abu Bakr became the caliph some Arabs renegade (reverted to 
disbelief) (Abu Bakr decided to declare war against them), `Umar, said to Abu Bakr, "How can you 
fight with these people although Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I have been ordered (by Allah) to fight the 
people till they say: "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and whoever said it then he will 
save his life and property from me except on trespassing the law (rights and conditions for which he 
will be punished justly), and his accounts will be with Allah.' " Abu Bakr said, "By Allah! I will fight 
those who differentiate between the prayer and the Zakat as Zakat is the compulsory right to be taken 
from the property (according to Allah's orders) By Allah! If they refuse to pay me even a she-kid 
which they used to pay at the time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . I would fight with them for withholding it" 
Then `Umar said, "By Allah, it was nothing, but Allah opened Abu Bakr's chest towards the decision 
(to fight) and I came to know that his decision was right."
Bukhari:1400 Narrated Abu Huraira:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died and Abu Bakr became the caliph some Arabs renegade (reverted to 
disbelief) (Abu Bakr decided to declare war against them), `Umar, said to Abu Bakr, "How can you 
fight with these people although Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I have been ordered (by Allah) to fight the 
people till they say: "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and whoever said it then he will 
save his life and property from me except on trespassing the law (rights and conditions for which he 
will be punished justly), and his accounts will be with Allah.' " Abu Bakr said, "By Allah! I will fight 
those who differentiate between the prayer and the Zakat as Zakat is the compulsory right to be taken 
from the property (according to Allah's orders) By Allah! If they refuse to pay me even a she-kid 
which they used to pay at the time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . I would fight with them for withholding it" 
Then `Umar said, "By Allah, it was nothing, but Allah opened Abu Bakr's chest towards the decision 
(to fight) and I came to know that his decision was right."
Bukhari:1401 Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:I gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) for offering prayer perfectly, giving Zakat, and giving 
good advice to every Muslim.
Bukhari:1402 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(On the Day of Resurrection) camels will come to their owner in the best state of 
health they have ever had (in the world), and if he had not paid their Zakat (in the world) then they 
would tread him with their feet; and similarly, sheep will come to their owner in the best state of 
health they have ever had in the world, and if he had not paid their Zakat, then they would tread him 
with their hooves and would butt him with their horns." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "One of their rights is that 
they should be milked while water is kept in front of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I do not want anyone 
of you to come to me on the Day of Resurrection, carrying over his neck a sheep that will be bleating. 
Such a person will (then) say, 'O Muhammad! (please intercede for me,) I will say to him. 'I can't help 
you, for I conveyed Allah's Message to you.' Similarly, I do not want anyone of you to come to me 
carrying over his neck a camel that will be grunting. Such a person (then) will say "O Muhammad! 
(please intercede for me)." I will say to him, "I can't help you for I conveyed Allah's message to you."
Bukhari:1403 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever is made wealthy by Allah and does not pay the Zakat of his wealth, 
then on the Day of Resurrection his wealth will be made like a baldheaded poisonous male snake with 
two black spots over the eyes. The snake will encircle his neck and bite his cheeks and say, 'I am your 
wealth, I am your treasure.' " Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the holy verses:-- 'Let not those who withhold . 
. .' (to the end of the verse). (3.180).
Bukhari:1404 Narrated Khalid bin Aslam:We went out with 'Abdullah bin 'Umar and a bedouin said (to 'Abdullah), "Tell me about Allah's saying: "And those who hoard up gold and silver (Al-Kanz - money, gold, silver etc., the Zakat of which has not been paid) and spend it not in the Way of Allah (V.9:34)." Ibn 'Umar said, "Whoever hoarded them and did not pay the Zakat thereof, then woe to him. But these holy Verses were revealed before the Verses of Zakat. So when the Verses of Zakat were revealed, Allah made Zakat a purifier of the property."
Bukhari:1405 Narrated Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "No Zakat is due on property mounting to less than five Uqiyas (of 
silver), and no Zakat is due on less than five camels, and there is no Zakat on less than five Wasqs." 
(A Wasqs equals 60 Sa's) & (1 Sa=3 K gms App.)
Bukhari:1406 Narrated Zaid bin Wahab:I passed by a place called Ar-Rabadha and by chance I met Abu Dhar and asked him, "What has 
brought you to this place?" He said, "I was in Sham and differed with Muawiya on the meaning of 
(the following verses of the Qur'an): 'They who hoard up gold and silver and spend them not in the 
way of Allah.' (9.34). Muawiya said, 'This verse is revealed regarding the people of the scriptures." I 
said, It was revealed regarding us and also the people of the scriptures." So we had a quarrel and 
Mu'awiya sent a complaint against me to `Uthman. `Uthman wrote to me to come to Medina, and I 
came to Medina. Many people came to me as if they had not seen me before. So I told this to `Uthman 
who said to me, "You may depart and live nearby if you wish." That was the reason for my being here 
for even if an Ethiopian had been nominated as my ruler, I would have obeyed him .
Bukhari:1407 Narrated Al-Ahnaf bin Qais:While I was sitting with some people from Quraish, a man with very rough hair, clothes, and 
appearance came and stood in front of us, greeted us and said, "Inform those who hoard wealth, that a 
stone will be heated in the Hell-fire and will be put on the nipples of their breasts till it comes out 
from the bones of their shoulders and then put on the bones of their shoulders till it comes through the 
nipples of their breasts the stone will be moving and hitting." After saying that, the person retreated 
and sat by the side of the pillar, I followed him and sat beside him, and I did not know who he was. I 
said to him, "I think the people disliked what you had said." He said, "These people do not understand 
anything, although my friend told me." I asked, "Who is your friend?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to 
me), 'O Abu Dhar! Do you see the mountain of Uhud?' And on that I (Abu Dhar) started looking 
towards the sun to judge how much remained of the day as I thought that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to 
send me to do something for him and I said, 'Yes!' He said, 'I do not love to have gold equal to the 
mountain of Uhud unless I spend it all (in Allah's cause) except three Dinars (pounds). These people 
do not understand and collect worldly wealth. No, by Allah, Neither I ask them for worldly benefits 
nor am I in need of their religious advice till I meet Allah, The Honorable, The Majestic." '
Bukhari:1408 Narrated Al-Ahnaf bin Qais:While I was sitting with some people from Quraish, a man with very rough hair, clothes, and 
appearance came and stood in front of us, greeted us and said, "Inform those who hoard wealth, that a 
stone will be heated in the Hell-fire and will be put on the nipples of their breasts till it comes out 
from the bones of their shoulders and then put on the bones of their shoulders till it comes through the 
nipples of their breasts the stone will be moving and hitting." After saying that, the person retreated 
and sat by the side of the pillar, I followed him and sat beside him, and I did not know who he was. I 
said to him, "I think the people disliked what you had said." He said, "These people do not understand 
anything, although my friend told me." I asked, "Who is your friend?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to 
me), 'O Abu Dhar! Do you see the mountain of Uhud?' And on that I (Abu Dhar) started looking 
towards the sun to judge how much remained of the day as I thought that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to 
send me to do something for him and I said, 'Yes!' He said, 'I do not love to have gold equal to the 
mountain of Uhud unless I spend it all (in Allah's cause) except three Dinars (pounds). These people 
do not understand and collect worldly wealth. No, by Allah, Neither I ask them for worldly benefits 
nor am I in need of their religious advice till I meet Allah, The Honorable, The Majestic." '
Bukhari:1409 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There is no envy except in two: a person whom Allah has given wealth 
and he spends it in the right way, and a person whom Allah has given wisdom (i.e. religious 
knowledge) and he gives his decisions accordingly and teaches it to the others."
Bukhari:1410 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If one give in charity what equals one date-fruit from the honestly earned 
money and Allah accepts only the honestly earned money --Allah takes it in His right (hand) and then 
enlarges its reward for that person (who has given it), as anyone of you brings up his baby horse, so 
much s that it becomes as big as a mountain
Bukhari:1411 Narrated Haritha bin Wahab:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O people! Give in charity as a time will come upon you when a person 
will wander about with his object of charity and will not find anybody to accept it, and one (who will 
be requested to take it) will say, "If you had brought it yesterday, would have taken it, but today I am 
not in need of it."
Bukhari:1412 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour (Day of Judgment) will not be established till your wealth increases so 
much so that one will be worried, for no one will accept his Zakat and the person to whom he will 
give it will reply, 'I am not in need of it.' "
Bukhari:1413 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:While I was sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) two person came to him; one of them complained 
about his poverty and the other complained about the prevalence of robberies. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 
"As regards stealing and robberies, there will shortly come a time when a caravan will go to Mecca 
(from Medina) without any guard. And regarding poverty, The Hour (Day of Judgment) will not be 
established till one of you wanders about with his object of charity and will not find anybody to accept 
it And (no doubt) each one of you will stand in front of Allah and there will be neither a curtain nor an 
interpreter between him and Allah, and Allah will ask him, 'Did not I give you wealth?' He will reply 
in the affirmative. Allah will further ask, 'Didn't send a messenger to you?' And again that person will 
reply in the affirmative Then he will look to his right and he will see nothing but Hell-fire, and then he 
will look to his left and will see nothing but Hell-fire. And so, any (each one) of you should save 
himself from the fire even by giving half of a date-fruit (in charity). And if you do not find a hall datefruit, 
then (you can do it through saying) a good pleasant word (to your brethren). (See Hadith No. 
793 Vol. 4).
Bukhari:1414 Narrated Abu Musa:Thy Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "A time will come upon the people when a person will wander about with 
gold as Zakat and will not find anybody to accept it, and one man will be seen followed by forty 
women to be their guardian because of scarcity of men and great number of women. "
Bukhari:1415 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:When the verses of charity were revealed, we used to work as porters. A man came and distributed 
objects of charity in abundance. And they (the people) said, "He is showing off." And another man 
came and gave a Sa (a small measure of food grains); they said, "Allah is not in need of this small 
amount of charity." And then the Divine Inspiration came: "Those who criticize such of the believers 
who give in charity voluntarily and those who could not find to give in charity except what is 
available to them." (9.79).
Bukhari:1416 Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) ordered us to give in charity, we used to go to the market and 
work as porters and get a Mudd (a special measure of grain) and then give it in charity. (Those were 
the days of poverty) and today some of us have one hundred thousand.
Bukhari:1417 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying:"Save yourself from Hell-fire even by giving half a date-fruit in charity."
Bukhari:1418 Narrated Aisha:A lady along with her two daughters came to me asking (for some alms), but she found nothing with 
me except one date which I gave to her and she divided it between her two daughters, and did not eat 
anything herself, and then she got up and went away. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came in and I informed him 
about this story. He said, "Whoever is put to trial by these daughters and he treats them generously 
(with benevolence) then these daughters will act as a shield for him from Hell-Fire." (See Hadith No. 
24, Vol. 8).
Bukhari:1419 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which charity is the most superior in 
reward?" He replied, "The charity which you practice while you are healthy, niggardly and afraid of 
poverty and wish to become wealthy. Do not delay it to the time of approaching death and then say, 
'Give so much to such and such, and so much to such and such.' And it has already belonged to such 
and such (as it is too late)."
Bukhari:1420 Narrated `Aisha:Some of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Who amongst us will be the first to follow you (i.e. die 
after you)?" He said, "Whoever has the longest hand." So they started measuring their hands with a 
stick and Sauda's hand turned out to be the longest. (When Zainab bint Jahsh died first of all in the 
caliphate of `Umar), we came to know that the long hand was a symbol of practicing charity, so she 
was the first to follow the Prophet (ﷺ) and she used to love to practice charity. (Sauda died later in the 
caliphate of Muawiya).
Bukhari:1421 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "A man said that he would give something in charity. He went out with 
his object of charity and unknowingly gave it to a thief. Next morning the people said that he had 
given his object of charity to a thief. (On hearing that) he said, "O Allah! All the praises are for you. I 
will give alms again." And so he again went out with his alms and (unknowingly) gave it to an 
adulteress. Next morning the people said that he had given his alms to an adulteress last night. The 
man said, "O Allah! All the praises are for you. (I gave my alms) to an adulteress. I will give alms 
again." So he went out with his alms again and (unknowingly) gave it to a rich person. (The people) 
next morning said that he had given his alms to a wealthy person. He said, "O Allah! All the praises 
are for you. (I had given alms) to a thief, to an adulteress and to a wealthy man." Then someone came 
and said to him, "The alms which you gave to the thief, might make him abstain from stealing, and 
that given to the adulteress might make her abstain from illegal sexual intercourse (adultery), and that 
given to the wealthy man might make him take a lesson from it and spend his wealth which Allah has 
given him, in Allah's cause."
Bukhari:1422 Narrated Ma'n bin Yazid:My grandfather, my father and I gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) got me 
engaged and then got me married. One day I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a complaint. My father Yazid 
had taken some gold coins for charity and kept them with a man in the mosque (to give them to the 
poor) But I went and took them and brought them to him (my father). My father said, "By Allah! I did 
not intend to give them to you. " I took (the case) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O 
Yazid, you will be rewarded for what you intended. O Ma'n, whatever you have taken is yours."
Bukhari:1423 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Seven people will be shaded by Allah under His shade on the day when 
there will be no shade except His. They are: 
(1) a just ruler; 
(2) a young man who has been brought up in the worship of Allah, (i.e. worship Allah (Alone) 
sincerely from his childhood), 
(3) a man whose heart is attached to the mosque (who offers the five compulsory congregational 
prayers in the mosque); 
(4) two persons who love each other only for Allah's sake and they meet and part in Allah's cause 
only; 
(5) a man who refuses the call of a charming woman of noble birth for an illegal sexual intercourse 
with her and says: I am afraid of Allah; 
(6) a person who practices charity so secretly that his left hand does not know what his right hand has 
given (i.e. nobody knows how much he has given in charity). 
(7) a person who remembers Allah in seclusion and his eyes get flooded with tears."
Bukhari:1424 Narrated Haritha bin Wahab Al-Khuza`i:I heard the Prophet (p.b.u.h) saying, "(O people!) Give in charity (for Allah's cause) because a time 
will come when a person will carry his object of charity from place to place (and he will not find any 
person to take it) and any person whom he shall request to take it, I will reply, 'If you had brought it 
yesterday I would have taken it, but today I am not in need of it."
Bukhari:1425 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When a woman gives in charity some of the foodstuff (which she has in her 
house) without spoiling it, she will receive the reward for what she has spent, and her husband will 
receive the reward because of his earning, and the storekeeper will also have a reward similar to it. 
The reward of one will not decrease the reward of the others . "
Bukhari:1426 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "The best charity is that which is practiced by a wealthy person. And start 
giving first to your dependents."
Bukhari:1427 Narrated Hakim bin Hizam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The upper hand is better than the lower hand (i.e. he who gives in charity is better 
than him who takes it). One should start giving first to his dependents. And the best object of charity 
is that which is given by a wealthy person (from the money which is left after his expenses). And 
whoever abstains from asking others for some financial help, Allah will give him and save him from 
asking others, Allah will make him self-sufficient."
Bukhari:1428 Narrated Hakim bin Hizam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The upper hand is better than the lower hand (i.e. he who gives in charity is better 
than him who takes it). One should start giving first to his dependents. And the best object of charity 
is that which is given by a wealthy person (from the money which is left after his expenses). And 
whoever abstains from asking others for some financial help, Allah will give him and save him from 
asking others, Allah will make him self-sufficient."
Bukhari:1429 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) while he was on the pulpit speaking about charity, to abstain from 
asking others for some financial help and about begging others, saying, "The upper hand is better than 
the lower hand. The upper hand is that of the giver and the lower (hand) is that of the beggar."
Bukhari:1430 Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and then hurriedly went to his house and returned 
immediately. I (or somebody else) asked him (as to what was the matter) and he said, "I left at home a 
piece of gold which was from the charity and I disliked to let it remain a night in my house, so I got it 
distributed . "
Bukhari:1431 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out for the `Id prayer on the `Id day and offered a two rak`at prayer; and he neither 
offered a prayer before it or after it. Then he went towards the women along with Bilal. He preached 
them and ordered them to give in charity. And some (amongst the women) started giving their forearm 
bangles and earrings.
Bukhari:1432 Narrated Abu Burda bin Abu Musa:that his father said, "Whenever a beggar came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) or he was asked for something, he 
used to say (to his companions), "Help and recommend him and you will receive the reward for it; and 
Allah will bring about what He will through His Prophet's tongue."
Bukhari:1433 Narrated Asma:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Do not withhold your money, (for if you did so) Allah would withhold His 
blessings from you."Narrated `Abda:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not withhold your money by counting it (i.e. hoarding it), (for if you did so), 
Allah would also withhold His blessings from you."
Bukhari:1434 Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:that she had gone to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "Do not shut your money bag; otherwise Allah too will 
withhold His blessings from you. Spend (in Allah's Cause) as much as you can afford. "
Bukhari:1435 Narrated Abu Wail:Hudhaifa said, "`Umar said, 'Who amongst you remembers the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) 
about afflictions'?' I said, 'I know it as the Prophet (ﷺ) had said it.' `Umar said, 'No doubt, you are bold. 
How did he say it?' I said, 'A man's afflictions (wrong deeds) concerning his wife, children and 
neighbors are expiated by (his) prayers, charity, and enjoining good.' (The sub-narrator Sulaiman 
added that he said, 'The prayer, charity, enjoining good and forbidding evil.') `Umar said, 'I did not 
mean that, but I ask about that affliction which will spread like the waves of the sea.' I said, 'O chief of 
the believers! You need not be afraid of it as there is a closed door between you and it.' He asked, 
'Will the door be broken or opened?' I replied, 'No, it will be broken.' He said, 'Then, if it is broken, it 
will never be closed again?' I replied, 'Yes.' " Then we were afraid to ask what that door was, so we 
asked Masruq to inquire, and he asked Hudhaifa regarding it. Hudhaifa said, "The door was `Umar. 
"We further asked Hudhaifa whether `Umar knew what that door meant. Hudhaifa replied in the 
affirmative and added, "He knew it as one knows that there will be a night before the tomorrow 
morning."
Bukhari:1436 Narrated Hakim bin Hizam:I said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Before embracing Islam I used to do good deeds like giving in charity, 
slave-manumitting, and the keeping of good relations with Kith and kin. Shall I be rewarded for those 
deeds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "You became Muslim with all those good deeds (Without losing their 
reward)."
Bukhari:1437 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When a woman gives in charity from her husband's meals without wasting the 
property of her husband, she will get a reward for it, and her husband too will get a reward for what he 
earned and the storekeeper will have the reward likewise."
Bukhari:1438 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "An honest Muslim storekeeper who carries out the orders of his master and pays 
fully what he has been ordered to give with a good heart and pays to that person to whom he was 
ordered to pay, is regarded as one of the two charitable persons."
Bukhari:1439 Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman gives in charity from her husband's house ..." (See next hadith)
Bukhari:1440 Narrate Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman gives in charity from her husband's house .." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) also 
said, "If a lady gives meals (in charity) from her husband's house without spoiling her husband's 
property, she will get a reward and her husband will also get a reward likewise. The husband will get a 
reward because of his earnings and the woman because of her spending."
Bukhari:1441 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a woman gives in charity from her house meals in Allah's Cause without 
spoiling her husband's property, she will get a reward for it, and her husband will also get the reward 
for his earnings and the storekeeper will get a reward likewise."
Bukhari:1442 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every day two angels come down from Heaven and one of them says, 'O Allah! 
Compensate every person who spends in Your Cause,' and the other (angel) says, 'O Allah! Destroy 
every miser.' "
Bukhari:1443 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a miser and an almsgiver is like the example of two persons 
wearing iron cloaks." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also said, "The example of an almsgiver and a miser is like the 
example of two persons who have two iron cloaks on them from their breasts to their collar bones, and 
when the almsgiver wants to give in charity, the cloak becomes capacious till it covers his whole body 
to such an extent that it hides his fingertips and covers his footprints (obliterates his tracks). (1) And 
when the miser wants to spend, it (the iron cloak) sticks and every ring gets stuck to its place and he 
tries to widen it, but it did not become wide.
Bukhari:1444 See previous hadith.
Bukhari:1445 Narrated Abu Burda:from his father from his grandfather that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every Muslim has to give in charity." The 
people asked, "O Allah's Prophet! If someone has nothing to give, what will he do?" He said, "He 
should work with his hands and benefit himself and also give in charity (from what he earns)." The 
people further asked, "If he cannot find even that?" He replied, "He should help the needy who appeal 
for help." Then the people asked, "If he cannot do that?" He replied, "Then he should perform good 
deeds and keep away from evil deeds and this will be regarded as charitable deeds."
Bukhari:1446 Narrated Um 'Atiyya:A sheep was sent to me (Nusaiba Al-Ansariya) (in charity) and I sent some of it to `Aisha. The 
Prophet asked `Aisha for something to eat. `Aisha replied that there was nothing except what Nusaiba 
Al-Ansariya had sent of that sheep. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "Bring it as it has reached its place."
Bukhari:1447 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat on less than five camels and also there is no Zakat on less 
than five Awaq (of silver). (5 Awaq = 22 Fransa Riyals of Yemen or 200 Dirhams.) And there is no 
Zakat on less than five Awsuq. (A special measure of food-grains, and one Wasq equals 60 Sa's.) (For 
gold 20, Dinars i.e. equal to 12 Guinea English. No Zakat for less than 12 Guinea (English) of gold or 
for silver less than 22 Fransa Riyals of Yemen.)Narrated Abi Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying (as above).
Bukhari:1448 Narrated Anas:Abu Bakr wrote to me what Allah had instructed His Apostle (p.b.u.h) to do regarding the one who 
had to pay one Bint Makhad (i.e. one year-old she-camel) as Zakat, and he did not have it but had got 
Bint Labun (two year old she-camel). (He wrote that) it could be accepted from him as Zakat, and the 
collector of Zakat would return him 20 Dirhams or two sheep; and if the Zakat payer had not a Bint 
Makhad, but he had Ibn Labun (a two year old he-camel) then it could be accepted as his Zakat, but he 
would not be paid anything .
Bukhari:1449 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I am a witness that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the Id prayer before delivering the sermon and then he 
thought that the women would not be able to hear him (because of the distance), so he went to them 
along with Bilal who was spreading his garment. The Prophet (ﷺ) advised and ordered them to give in 
charity. So the women started giving their ornaments (in charity). (The sub-narrator Aiyub pointed 
towards his ears and neck meaning that they gave ornaments from those places such as earrings and 
necklaces.)
Bukhari:1450 Narrated Anas:Abu Bakr wrote to me what was made compulsory by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and that was (regarding the 
payments of Zakat): Neither the property of different people may be taken together nor the joint 
property may be split for fear of (paying more, or receiving less) Zakat.
Bukhari:1451 Narrated Anas:Abu Bakr wrote to me what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has made compulsory (regarding Zakat) and this was 
mentioned in it: If a property is equally owned by two partners, they should pay the combined Zakat 
and it will be considered that both of them have paid their Zakat equally.
Bukhari:1452 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A Bedouin asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the emigration. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "May Allah have 
mercy on you! The matter of emigration is very hard. Have you got camels? Do you pay their Zakat?" 
The Bedouin said, "Yes, I have camels and I pay their Zakat." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Work beyond the 
seas and Allah will not decrease (waste) any of your good deeds." (See Hadith No. 260 Vol. 5).
Bukhari:1453 Narrated Anas:Abu Bakr , wrote to me about the Zakat which Allah had ordered His Apostle to observe: Whoever 
had to pay Jahda (Jahda means a four-year-old she-camel) as Zakat from his herd of camels and he 
had not got one, and he had Hiqqa (three-year-old she-camel), that Hiqqa should be accepted from 
him along with two sheep if they were available or twenty Dirhams (one Durham equals about 1/4 
Saudi Riyal) and whoever had to pay Hiqqa as Zakat and he had no Hiqqa but had a Jadha, the Jadha 
should be accepted from him, and the Zakat collector should repay him twenty Dirhams or two sheep; 
and whoever had to pay Hiqqa as Zakat and he had not got one, but had a Bint Labun (two-year-old 
she-camel), it should be accepted from him along with two sheep or twenty Dirhams; and whoever 
had to pay Bint Labun and had a Hiqqa, that Hiqqa should be accepted from him and the Zakat 
collector should repay him twenty Dirhams or two sheep; and whoever had to pay Bint Labun and he 
had not got one but had a Bint Makhad (one-year-old she camel), that Bint Makhad should be 
accepted from him along with twenty Dirhams or two sheep.
Bukhari:1454 Narrated Anas:When Abu Bakr; sent me to (collect the Zakat from) Bahrain, he wrote to me the following:-- (In the 
name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful). These are the orders for compulsory charity (Zakat) 
which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had made obligatory for every Muslim, and which Allah had ordered His 
Apostle to observe: Whoever amongst the Muslims is asked to pay Zakat accordingly, he should pay it 
(to the Zakat collector) and whoever is asked more than that (what is specified in this script) he should 
not pay it; for twenty-four camels or less, sheep are to be paid as Zakat; for every five camels one 
sheep is to be paid, and if there are between twenty-five to thirty-five camels, one Bint Makhad is to 
be paid; and if they are between thirty-six to forty-five (camels), one Bint Labun is to be paid; and if 
they are between forty-six to sixty (camels), one Hiqqa is to be paid; and if the number is between 
sixty-one to seventy-five (camels), one Jadha is to be paid; and if the number is between seventy-six 
to ninety (camels), two Bint Labuns are to be paid; and if they are from ninety-one to one-hundredand 
twenty (camels), two Hiqqas are to be paid; and if they are over one-hundred and-twenty 
(camels), for every forty (over one-hundred-and-twenty) one Bint Labun is to be paid, and for every 
fifty camels (over one-hundred-and-twenty) one Hiqqa is to be paid; and who ever has got only four 
camels, has to pay nothing as Zakat, but if the owner of these four camels wants to give something, he 
can. If the number of camels increases to five, the owner has to pay one sheep as Zakat. 
As regards the Zakat for the (flock) of sheep; if they are between forty and one-hundred-and-twenty 
sheep, one sheep is to be paid; and if they are between one-hundred-and-twenty to two hundred 
(sheep), two sheep are to be paid; and if they are between two-hundred to three-hundred (sheep), three 
sheep are to be paid; and for over three-hundred sheep, for every extra hundred sheep, one sheep is to 
be paid as Zakat. And if somebody has got less than forty sheep, no Zakat is required, but if he wants 
to give, he can. For silver the Zakat is one-fortieth of the lot (i.e. 2.5%), and if its value is less than 
two-hundred Dirhams, Zakat is not required, but if the owner wants to pay he can.'
Bukhari:1455 Narrated Anas:Abu Bakr wrote to me what Allah had ordered His Apostle (about Zakat) which goes: Neither an old 
nor a defected animal, nor a male-goat may be taken as Zakat except if the Zakat collector wishes (to 
take it).
Bukhari:1456 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu Bakr said, "By Allah! If they (pay me the Zakat and) withhold even a young (female) goat which they used to 
pay during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I will fight with them for it." `Umar said, "It was nothing 
but Allah Who opened Abu Bakr's chest towards the decision to fight, and I came to know that his 
decision was right."
Bukhari:1457 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu Bakr said, "By Allah! If they (pay me the Zakat and) withhold even a young (female) goat which they used to 
pay during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I will fight with them for it." `Umar said, "It was nothing 
but Allah Who opened Abu Bakr's chest towards the decision to fight, and I came to know that his 
decision was right."
Bukhari:1458 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) sent Mu`adh to Yemen, he said (to him), "YOU are going to people of 
a (Divine) Book. First of all invite them to worship Allah (alone) and when they come to know Allah, 
inform them that Allah has enjoined on them, five prayers in every day and night; and if they start 
offering these prayers, inform them that Allah has enjoined on them, the Zakat. And it is to be taken 
from the rich amongst them and given to the poor amongst them; and if they obey you in that, take 
Zakat from them and avoid (don't take) the best property of the people as Zakat."
Bukhari:1459 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No Zakat is imposed on less than five Awsuq of dates; no Zakat is imposed on 
less than five Awaq of silver, and no Zakat is imposed on less than five camels."
Bukhari:1460 Narrated Abu Dhar:Once I went to him (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) and he said, "By Allah in Whose Hands my life is (or probably said, 
'By Allah, except Whom none has the right to be worshipped) whoever had camels or cows or sheep 
and did not pay their Zakat, those animals will be brought on the Day of Resurrection far bigger and 
fatter than before and they will tread him under their hooves, and will butt him with their horns, and 
(those animals will come in circle): When the last does its turn, the first will start again, and this 
punishment will go on till Allah has finished the judgments amongst the people."
Bukhari:1461 Narrated 'Is-haq bin `Abdullah bin Al Talha:I heard Anas bin Malik saying, "Abu Talha had more property of date-palm trees gardens than any 
other amongst the Ansar in Medina and the most beloved of them to him was Bairuha garden, and it 
was in front of the Mosque of the Prophet (ﷺ) . Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to go there and used to drink its nice 
water." Anas added, "When these verses were revealed:--'By no means shall you Attain righteousness 
unless You spend (in charity) of that Which you love. ' (3.92) Abu Talha said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 'O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah, the Blessed, the Superior says: By no means shall you attain righteousness, 
unless you spend (in charity) of that which you love. And no doubt, Bairuha' garden is the most 
beloved of all my property to me. So I want to give it in charity in Allah's Cause. I expect its reward 
from Allah. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Spend it where Allah makes you think it feasible.' On that Allah's 
Apostle said, 'Bravo! It is useful property. I have heard what you have said (O Abu Talha), and I think 
it would be proper if you gave it to your Kith and kin.' Abu Talha said, I will do so, O Allah's 
Apostle.' Then Abu Talha distributed that garden amongst his relatives and his cousins."
Bukhari:1462 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:On `Id ul Fitr or `Id ul Adha Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) went out to the Musalla. After finishing the 
prayer, he delivered the sermon and ordered the people to give alms. He said, "O people! Give alms." 
Then he went towards the women and said. "O women! Give alms, for I have seen that the majority of 
the dwellers of Hell-Fire were you (women)." The women asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is the 
reason for it?" He replied, "O women! You curse frequently, and are ungrateful to your husbands. I 
have not seen anyone more deficient in intelligence and religion than you. O women, some of you can 
lead a cautious wise man astray." Then he left. And when he reached his house, Zainab, the wife of 
Ibn Mas`ud, came and asked permission to enter It was said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is Zainab." He 
asked, 'Which Zainab?" The reply was that she was the wife of Ibn Mas'ub. He said, "Yes, allow her 
to enter." And she was admitted. Then she said, "O Prophet of Allah! Today you ordered people to 
give alms and I had an ornament and intended to give it as alms, but Ibn Mas`ud said that he and his 
children deserved it more than anybody else." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Ibn Mas`ud had spoken the truth. 
Your husband and your children had more right to it than anybody else."
Bukhari:1463 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat either on a horse or a slave belonging to a Muslim."
Bukhari:1464 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat either on a slave or on a horse belonging to a Muslim."
Bukhari:1465 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on a pulpit and we sat around him. Then he said, "The things I am afraid of most 
for your sake (concerning what will befall you after me) is the pleasures and splendors of the world 
and its beauties which will be disclosed to you." Somebody said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Can the good 
bring forth evil?" The Prophet (ﷺ) remained silent for a while. It was said to that person, "What is wrong 
with you? You are talking to the Prophet (p.b.u.h) while he is not talking to you." Then we noticed 
that he was being inspired divinely. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) wiped off his sweat and said, "Where is the 
questioner?" It seemed as if the Prophet (ﷺ) liked his question. Then he said, "Good never brings forth 
evil. Indeed it is like what grows on the banks of a water-stream which either kill or make the animals 
sick, except if an animal eats its fill the Khadira (a kind of vegetable) and then faces the sun, and then 
defecates and urinates and grazes again. No doubt this wealth is sweet and green. Blessed is the 
wealth of a Muslim from which he gives to the poor, the orphans and to needy travelers. (Or the 
Prophet said something similar to it) No doubt, whoever takes it illegally will be like the one who eats 
but is never satisfied, and his wealth will be a witness against him on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:1466 Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith:Zainab, the wife of `Abdullah said, "I was in the Mosque and saw the Prophet (p.b.u.h) saying, 'O 
women ! Give alms even from your ornaments.' " Zainab used to provide for `Abdullah and those 
orphans who were under her protection. So she said to `Abdullah, "Will you ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
whether it will be sufficient for me to spend part of the Zakat on you and the orphans who are under 
my protection?" He replied "Will you yourself ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" (Zainab added): So I went to the 
Prophet and I saw there an Ansari woman who was standing at the door (of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) with a 
similar problem as mine. Bilal passed by us and we asked him, 'Ask the Prophet (ﷺ) whether it is 
permissible for me to spend (the Zakat) on my husband and the orphans under my protection.' And we 
requested Bilal not to inform the Prophet (ﷺ) about us. So Bilal went inside and asked the Prophet (ﷺ) 
regarding our problem. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) asked, "Who are those two?" Bilal replied that she was 
Zainab. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Which Zainab?" Bilal said, "The wife of `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud)." The 
Prophet said, "Yes, (it is sufficient for her) and she will receive a double rewards (for that): One for 
helping relatives, and the other for giving Zakat."
Bukhari:1467 Narrated Zainab:(the daughter of Um Salama) My mother said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I receive a reward if I spend 
for the sustenance of Abu Salama's offspring, and in fact they are also my sons?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 
"Spend on them and you will get a reward for what you spend on them."
Bukhari:1468 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) ordered (a person) to collect Zakat, and that person returned and told him 
that Ibn Jamil, Khalid bin Al-Walid, and `Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib had refused to give Zakat." The 
Prophet said, "What made Ibn Jamil refuse to give Zakat though he was a poor man, and was made 
wealthy by Allah and His Apostle ? But you are unfair in asking Zakat from Khalid as he is keeping 
his armor for Allah's Cause (for Jihad). As for `Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib, he is the uncle of Allah's 
Apostle (p.b.u.h) and Zakat is compulsory on him and he should pay it double."
Bukhari:1469 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Some Ansari persons asked for (something) from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) and he gave them. They 
again asked him for (something) and he again gave them. And then they asked him and he gave them 
again till all that was with him finished. And then he said "If I had anything. I would not keep it away 
from you. (Remember) Whoever abstains from asking others, Allah will make him contented, and 
whoever tries to make himself self-sufficient, Allah will make him self-sufficient. And whoever 
remains patient, Allah will make him patient. Nobody can be given a blessing better and greater than 
patience."
Bukhari:1470 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, it is better for anyone of you to take a rope 
and cut the wood (from the forest) and carry it over his back and sell it (as a means of earning his 
living) rather than to ask a person for something and that person may give him or not."
Bukhari:1471 Narrated Az-Zubair bin Al-`Awwam:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "It is better for anyone of you to take a rope (and cut) and bring a bundle of 
wood (from the forest) over his back and sell it and Allah will save his face (from the Hell-Fire) 
because of that, rather than to ask the people who may give him or not."
Bukhari:1472 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair and Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:Hakim bin Hizam said, "(Once) I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (for something) and he gave it to me. Again I 
asked and he gave (it to me). Again I asked and he gave (it to me). And then he said, "O Hakim! This 
property is like a sweet fresh fruit; whoever takes it without greediness, he is blessed in it, and 
whoever takes it with greediness, he is not blessed in it, and he is like a person who eats but is never 
satisfied; and the upper (giving) hand is better than the lower (receiving) hand." Hakim added, "I said 
to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , 'By Him (Allah) Who sent you with the Truth, I shall never accept anything from 
anybody after you, till I leave this world.' " Then Abu Bakr (during his caliphate) called Hakim to give 
him his share from the war booty (like the other companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) ), he refused to accept 
anything. Then `Umar (during his caliphate) called him to give him his share but he refused. On that 
`Umar said, "O Muslims! I would like you to witness that I offered Hakim his share from this booty 
and he refused to take it." So Hakim never took anything from anybody after the Prophet (ﷺ) till he died.
Bukhari:1473 Narrated `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to give me something but I would say to him, "would you give it to a poorer and 
more needy one than l?" The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said to me, "Take it. If you are given something from 
this property, without asking for it or having greed for it take it; and if not given, do not run for it."
Bukhari:1474 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man keeps on asking others for something till he comes on the Day of 
Resurrection without any piece of flesh on his face." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "On the Day of Resurrection, 
the Sun will come near (to, the people) to such an extent that the sweat will reach up to the middle of 
the ears, so, when all the people are in that state, they will ask Adam for help, and then Moses, and 
then Muhammad (p.b.u.h) ." The sub-narrator added "Muhammad will intercede with Allah to judge 
amongst the people. He will proceed on till he will hold the ring of the door (of Paradise) and then 
Allah will exalt him to Maqam Mahmud (the privilege of intercession, etc.). And all the people of the 
gathering will send their praises to Allah.
Bukhari:1475 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man keeps on asking others for something till he comes on the Day of 
Resurrection without any piece of flesh on his face." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "On the Day of Resurrection, 
the Sun will come near (to, the people) to such an extent that the sweat will reach up to the middle of 
the ears, so, when all the people are in that state, they will ask Adam for help, and then Moses, and 
then Muhammad (p.b.u.h) ." The sub-narrator added "Muhammad will intercede with Allah to judge 
amongst the people. He will proceed on till he will hold the ring of the door (of Paradise) and then 
Allah will exalt him to Maqam Mahmud (the privilege of intercession, etc.). And all the people of the 
gathering will send their praises to Allah.
Bukhari:1476 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The poor person is not the one who asks a morsel or two (of meals) from the 
others, but the poor is the one who has nothing and is ashamed to beg from others."
Bukhari:1477 Narrated Ash-Shu`bi:The clerk of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba narrated, "Muawiya wrote to Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba: Write to 
me something which you have heard from the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ." So Al-Mughira wrote: I heard the 
Prophet saying, "Allah has hated for you three things: 
-1. Vain talks, (useless talk) that you talk too much or about others. 
-2. Wasting of wealth (by extravagance) 
-3. And asking too many questions (in disputed religious matters) or asking others for something 
(except in great need). (See Hadith No. 591, Vol. Ill)
Bukhari:1478 Narrated Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) distributed something (from the resources of Zakat) amongst a group of people while I 
was sitting amongst them, but he left a man whom I considered the best of the lot. So, I went up to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and asked him secretly, "Why have you left that person? By Allah! I consider him a 
believer." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Or merely a Muslim (Who surrender to Allah)." I remained quiet for a 
while but could not help repeating my question because of what I knew about him. I said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Why have you left that person? By Allah! I consider him a believer. " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Or 
merely a Muslim." I remained quiet for a while but could not help repeating my question because of 
what I knew about him. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have you left that person? By Allah! I 
consider him a believer." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Or merely a Muslim." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) 
said, "I give to a person while another is dearer to me, for fear that he may be thrown in the Hell-fire 
on his face (by reneging from Islam)."
Bukhari:1479 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The poor person is not the one who goes round the people and ask them for a 
mouthful or two (of meals) or a date or two but the poor is that who has not enough (money) to satisfy 
his needs and whose condition is not known to others, that others may give him something in charity, 
and who does not beg of people."
Bukhari:1480 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, it is better for a person to take a rope and proceed in the morning to the 
mountains and cut the wood and then sell it, and eat from this income and give alms from it than to 
ask others for something."
Bukhari:1481 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi:We took part in the holy battle of Tabuk in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and when we arrived at the 
Wadi-al-Qura, there was a woman in her garden. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked his companions to estimate the 
amount of the fruits in the garden, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) estimated it at ten Awsuq (One Wasaq = 60 
Sa's) and 1 Sa'= 3 kg. approximately). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to that lady, "Check what your garden will 
yield." When we reached Tabuk, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be a strong wind tonight and so no one 
should stand and whoever has a camel, should fasten it." So we fastened our camels. A strong wind 
blew at night and a man stood up and he was blown away to a mountain called Taiy, The King of Aila 
sent a white mule and a sheet for wearing to the Prophet (ﷺ) as a present, and wrote to the Prophet (ﷺ) that his 
people would stay in their place (and will pay Jizya taxation.) (1) When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Wadi-al- 
Qura he asked that woman how much her garden had yielded. She said, "Ten Awsuq," and that was 
what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had estimated. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I want to reach Medina quickly, and 
whoever among you wants to accompany me, should hurry up." The sub-narrator Ibn Bakkar said 
something which meant: When the Prophet (p.b.u.h) saw Medina he said, "This is Taba." And when 
he saw the mountain of Uhud, he said, "This mountain loves us and we love it. Shall I tell you of the 
best amongst the Ansar?" They replied in the affirmative. He said, "The family of Bani-n-Najjar, and 
then the family of Bani Sa`ida or Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj. (The above-mentioned are the best) 
but there is goodness in all the families of Ansar."
Bukhari:1482 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi:We took part in the holy battle of Tabuk in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and when we arrived at the 
Wadi-al-Qura, there was a woman in her garden. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked his companions to estimate the 
amount of the fruits in the garden, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) estimated it at ten Awsuq (One Wasaq = 60 
Sa's) and 1 Sa'= 3 kg. approximately). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to that lady, "Check what your garden will 
yield." When we reached Tabuk, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be a strong wind tonight and so no one 
should stand and whoever has a camel, should fasten it." So we fastened our camels. A strong wind 
blew at night and a man stood up and he was blown away to a mountain called Taiy, The King of Aila 
sent a white mule and a sheet for wearing to the Prophet (ﷺ) as a present, and wrote to the Prophet (ﷺ) that his 
people would stay in their place (and will pay Jizya taxation.) (1) When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Wadi-al- 
Qura he asked that woman how much her garden had yielded. She said, "Ten Awsuq," and that was 
what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had estimated. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I want to reach Medina quickly, and 
whoever among you wants to accompany me, should hurry up." The sub-narrator Ibn Bakkar said 
something which meant: When the Prophet (p.b.u.h) saw Medina he said, "This is Taba." And when 
he saw the mountain of Uhud, he said, "This mountain loves us and we love it. Shall I tell you of the 
best amongst the Ansar?" They replied in the affirmative. He said, "The family of Bani-n-Najjar, and 
then the family of Bani Sa`ida or Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj. (The above-mentioned are the best) 
but there is goodness in all the families of Ansar."
Bukhari:1483 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah from his father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On a land irrigated by rain water or by natural water channels or if the land is wet 
due to a near by water channel Ushr (i.e. one-tenth) is compulsory (as Zakat); and on the land irrigated 
by the well, half of an Ushr (i.e. one-twentieth) is compulsory (as Zakat on the yield of the land)."
Bukhari:1484 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat on less than five Awsuq (of dates), or on less than five camels, or 
on less than five Awaq of silver."
Bukhari:1485 Narrated Abu Huraira:Dates used to be brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) immediately after being plucked. Different persons would 
bring their dates till a big heap collected (in front of the Prophet). Once Al-Hasan and Al-Husain were 
playing with these dates. One of them took a date and put it in his mouth. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) looked at 
him and took it out from his mouth and said, "Don't you know that Muhammad's offspring do not eat 
what is given in charity?"
Bukhari:1486 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the sale of dates till they were good (ripe), and when it was asked what it 
meant, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Till there is no danger of blight."
Bukhari:1487 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the sale of fruits till they were ripe (free from blight).
Bukhari:1488 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of fruits until they were ripe. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) added, "It 
means that they become red ."
Bukhari:1489 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab gave a horse in charity in Allah's Cause and later he saw it being sold in the 
market and intended to purchase it. Then he went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked his permission. The 
Prophet said, "Do not take back what you have given in charity." For this reason, Ibn `Umar never 
purchased the things which he had given in charity, and in case he had purchased something 
(unknowingly) he would give it in charity again.
Bukhari:1490 Narrated `Umar:Once I gave a horse in Allah's Cause (in charity) but that person did not take care of it. I intended to 
buy it, as I thought he would sell it at a low price. So, I asked the Prophet (p.b.u.h) about it. He said, 
"Neither buy, nor take back your alms which you have given, even if the seller were willing to sell it 
for one Dirham, for he who takes back his alms is like the one who swallows his own vomit."
Bukhari:1491 Narrated Abu Huraira:Al-Hasan bin `Ali took a date from the dates given in charity and put it in his mouth. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Expel it from your mouth. Don't you know that we do not eat a thing which is given in charity?"
Bukhari:1492 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a dead sheep which had been given in charity to a freed slave-girl of Maimuna, the 
wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) . The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why don't you get the benefit of its hide?" They said, "It is 
dead." He replied, "Only to eat (its meat) is illegal."
Bukhari:1493 Narrated Al-Aswad:`Aisha intended to buy Barira (a slave-girl) in order to manumit her and her masters intended to put 
the condition that her Al-wala would be for them. `Aisha mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said to 
her, "Buy her, as the "Wala" is for the manumitted." Once some meat was presented to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and `Aisha said to him, "This (meat) was given in charity to Barira." He said, "It is an object of charity 
for Barira but a gift for us."
Bukhari:1494 Narrated Um 'Atiyya Al-Ansariya:The Prophet (ﷺ) went to `Aisha and asked her whether she had something (to eat). She replied that she 
had nothing except the mutton (piece) which Nusaiba (Um 'Atiyya) had sent to us (Barira) in 
charity." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has reached its place and now it is not a thing of charity but a gift for 
us."
Bukhari:1495 Narrated Anas:Some meat was presented to the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and it had been given to Barira (the freed slave-girl 
of Aisha) in charity. He said, "This meat is a thing of charity for Barira but it is a gift for us."
Bukhari:1496 Narrated Abu Ma`bad:(the slave of Ibn `Abbas) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Mu`adh when he sent him to Yemen, "You will go to 
the people of the Scripture. So, when you reach there, invite them to testify that none has the right to 
be worshipped but Allah, and that Muhammad is His Apostle. And if they obey you in that, tell them 
that Allah has enjoined on them five prayers in each day and night. And if they obey you in that tell 
them that Allah has made it obligatory on them to pay the Zakat which will be taken from the rich 
among them and given to the poor among them. If they obey you in that, then avoid taking the best of 
their possessions, and be afraid of the curse of an oppressed person because there is no screen between 
his invocation and Allah."
Bukhari:1497 Narrated 'Abdullah bin Abu Aufa :Whenever a person came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with his alms, the Prophet (ﷺ) would
     say, "O Allah! Send your Blessings upon so and so." My father went to 
     the Prophet (ﷺ) with his alms and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Send your 
     blessings upon the offspring of Abu Aufa."
Bukhari:1498 Narrated Abu HurairaThe Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man from Bani Israel asked someone from Bani 
     Israel to give him a loan of one thousand Dinars and the later gave it
     to him. The debtor went on a voyage (when the time for the payment of 
     the debt became due) but he did not find a boat, so he took a piece of
     wood and bored it and put 1000 diners in it and threw it into the sea.
     The creditor went out and took the piece of wood to his family to be 
     used as fire-wood." (See Hadith No. 488 B, Vol. 3). And the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     narrated the narration (and said), "When he sawed the wood, he found 
     his money."
Bukhari:1499 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no compensation for one killed or wounded by an animal or by falling 
in a well, or because of working in mines; but Khumus is compulsory on Rikaz."
Bukhari:1500 Narrated Abu Humaid Al-Sa`idi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) appointed a man called Ibn Al-Lutbiya, from the tribe of Al-Asd to collect 
Zakat from Bani Sulaim. When he returned, (after collecting the Zakat) the Prophet (ﷺ) checked the 
account with him.
Bukhari:1501 Narrated Anas:Some people from `Uraina tribe came to Medina and its climate did not suit them, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) allowed them to go to the herd of camels (given as Zakat) and they drank their milk and urine 
(as medicine) but they killed the shepherd and drove away all the camels. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent 
(men) in their pursuit to catch them, and they were brought, and he had their hands and feet cut, and 
their eyes were branded with heated pieces of iron and they were left in the Harra (a stony place at 
Medina) biting the stones. (See Hadith No. 234, Vol. 1)
Bukhari:1502 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I took `Abdullah bin Abu Talha to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to perform Tahnik for him. (Tahnik was a custom 
among the Muslims that whenever a child was born they used to take it to the Prophet (ﷺ) who would 
chew a piece of date and put a part of its juice in the child's mouth). I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and he had an 
instrument for branding in his hands and was branding the camels of Zakat.
Bukhari:1503 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) enjoined the payment of one Sa' of dates or one Sa' of barley as Zakat-ul-Fitr on every 
Muslim slave or free, male or female, young or old, and he ordered that it be paid before the people 
went out to offer the `Id prayer. (One Sa' = 3 Kilograms approx.)
Bukhari:1504 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made it incumbent on all the slave or free Muslims, male or female, to pay one Sa' of 
dates or barley as Zakat-ul-Fitr.
Bukhari:1505 Narrated Abu Sa`id:We used to give one Sa' of barley as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr (per head).
Bukhari:1506 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:We used to give one Sa' of meal or one Sa' of barley or one Sa' of dates, or one Sa' of cottage cheese 
or one Sa' of Raisins (dried grapes) as Zakat-ul-Fitr.
Bukhari:1507 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered (Muslims) to give one Sa' of dates or one Sa' of barley as Zakat-ul-Fitr. The 
people rewarded two Mudds of wheat as equal to that.
Bukhari:1508 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to give one Sa' of food or one Sa' of dates or one Sa' of barley or 
one Sa' of Raisins (dried grapes) as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr. And when Muawiya became the Caliph and the 
wheat was (available in abundance) he said, "I think (observe) that one Mudd (of wheat) equals two 
Mudds (of any of the above mentioned things).
Bukhari:1509 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the people to pay Zakat-ul-Fitr before going to the `Id prayer.
Bukhari:1510 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , we used to give one Sa' of food (edible things) as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr 
(to the poor). Our food used to be either of barley, raisins (dried grapes), cottage cheese or dates.
Bukhari:1511 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made incumbent on every male or female, free man or slave, the 
payment of one Sa' of dates or barley as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr (or said Sadaqa-Ramadan)." The people then 
substituted half Sa' of wheat for that. Ibn `Umar used to give dates (as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr). Once there 
was scarcity of dates in Medina and Ibn `Umar gave barley. 'And Ibn `Umar used to give Sadaqat-ul- 
Fitr for every young and old person. He even used to give on behalf of my children. Ibn `Umar used to 
give Sadaqat-ul-Fitr to those who had been officially appointed for its collection. People used to give 
Sadaqat-ul-Fitr (even) a day or two before the `Id.
Bukhari:1512 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has made Sadaqat-ul-Fitr obligatory, (and it was), either one Sa' of barley or one Sa' of 
dates (and its payment was obligatory) on young and old people, and on free men as well as on slaves.
Bukhari:1513 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Al-Fadl (his brother) was riding behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and a woman from the tribe of Khath'am came 
and Al-Fadl started looking at her and she started looking at him. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned Al-Fadl's face to 
the other side. The woman said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The obligation of Hajj enjoined by Allah on His 
devotees has become due on my father and he is old and weak, and he cannot sit firm on the Mount; 
may I perform Hajj on his behalf?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Yes, you may." That happened during the 
Hajj-al-Wida (of the Prophet (ﷺ) ).
Bukhari:1514 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ride on his Mount at Dhul Hulaifa and used to start saying, 
"Labbaik" when the Mount stood upright.
Bukhari:1515 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started saying, "Labbaik" from Dhul-Hulaifa when his Mount stood upright 
carrying him .
Bukhari:1516 Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent my brother, 'Abdur Rahman with me to Tan'im for the 'Umra, and he made me ride on the packsaddle (of a camel). 'Umar said, "Be ready to travel for Hajj as it (Hajj) is one of the two kind of Jihad".
Bukhari:1517 Narrated Thumama bin `Abdullah bin Anas:Anas performed the Hajj on a packsaddle and he was not a miser. Anas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
performed Hajj on a packsaddle and the same Mount was carrying his baggage too."
Bukhari:1518 Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:`Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You performed `Umra but I did not." He said, "O `Abdur-Rahman! 
Go along with your sister and let her perform `Umra from Tan`im." `Abdur-Rahman made her ride 
over the packsaddle of a she-camel and she performed `Umra.
Bukhari:1519 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, "Which is the best deed?" He said, "To believe in Allah and His Apostle." He 
was then asked, "Which is the next (in goodness)?" He said, "To participate in Jihad in Allah's Cause." 
He was then asked, "Which is the next?" He said, "To perform Hajj-Mabrur. "
Bukhari:1520 Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of the faithful believers) I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We consider Jihad as the best deed." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best Jihad (for women) is Hajj Mabrur. "
Bukhari:1521 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever performs Hajj for Allah's pleasure and does not have sexual 
relations with his wife, and does not do evil or sins then he will return (after Hajj free from all sins) as 
if he were born anew."
Bukhari:1522 Narrated Zaid bin Jubair:I went to visit `Abdullah bin `Umar at his house which contained many tents made of cotton cloth and 
these were encircled with Suradik (part of the tent). I asked him from where, should one assume Ihram 
for Umra. He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fixed as Miqat (singular of Mawaqit) Qarn for the people of 
Najd, Dhul-Hulaifa for the people of Medina, and Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham."
Bukhari:1523 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The people of Yemen used to come for Hajj and used not to bring enough provisions with them and 
used to say that they depend on Allah. On their arrival in Medina they used to beg the people, and so 
Allah revealed, "And take a provision (with you) for the journey, but the best provision is the fear of 
Allah." (2.197).
Bukhari:1524 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) made Dhul-Huiaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina; Al-Juhfa for the 
people of Sham; Qarn-al-Manazil for the people of Najd; and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen; and 
these Mawaqit are for the people at those very places, and besides them for those who come thorough 
those places with the intention of performing Hajj and `Umra; and whoever is living within these 
boundaries can assume lhram from the place he starts, and the people of Mecca can assume Ihram 
from Mecca.
Bukhari:1525 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The people of Medina should assume lhram from 
Dhul-Hulaifa; the people of Sham from Al-Juhfa; and the people of Najd from Qarn." And `Abdullah 
added, "I was informed that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said, 'The people of Yemen should assume Ihram 
from Yalamlam.' "
Bukhari:1526 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fixed Dhul Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina; Al-Juhfa for the people 
of Sham; and Qarn Ul-Manazil for the people of Najd; and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen. So, 
these (above mentioned) are the Mawaqit for all those living at those places, and besides them for 
those who come through those places with the intention of performing Hajj and `Umra and whoever 
lives within these places should assume Ihram from his dwelling place, and similarly the people of 
Mecca can assume lhram from Mecca.
Bukhari:1527 Narrated Salim from his father who said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) had fixed the Mawaqit as follows: (No. 603)
Bukhari:1528 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah from his father:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The Miqat for the people of Medina is Dhul-Hulaifa; for the people of 
Sham is Mahita; (i.e. Al-Juhfa); and for the people of Najd is Qarn. And said Ibn `Umar, "They claim, 
but I did not hear personally, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Miqat for the people of Yemen is 
Yalamlam."
Bukhari:1529 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Dhul-Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina, Al-Juhfa, for the people of 
Sham, Yalamlam for the people of Yemen, and Qarn for the people of Najd. And these Mawaqit are 
for those living at those very places, and besides them for those who come through those places with 
the intention of performing Hajj and Umra; and whoever is living inside these places can assume 
lhram from his own dwelling place, and the people of Mecca can assume lhram from Mecca.
Bukhari:1530 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) fixed Dhul-Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina, Al-Juhfa for the 
people of Sham, Qarn-al-Manazil for the people of Najd, and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen; and 
these Mawaqit are for those living at those very places, and besides them for those whom come 
through them with the intention of performing Hajj and Umra; and whoever is living within these 
Mawaqit should assume lhram from where he starts, and the people of Mecca can assume Ihram from 
Mecca.
Bukhari:1531 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When these two towns (Basra and Kufa) were captured, the people went to `Umar and said, "O the 
Chief of the faithful believers! The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Qarn as the Miqat for the people of Najd, it is 
beyond our way and it is difficult for us to pass through it." He said, "Take as your Miqat a place 
situated opposite to Qarn on your usual way. So, he fixed Dhatu-Irq (as their Miqat)."
Bukhari:1532 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar' said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made his camel sit (i.e. he dismounted) at Al-Batha' in 
Dhul-Hulaifa and offered the prayer." `Abdullah bin `Umar used to do the same.
Bukhari:1533 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to go (for Hajj) via Ash-Shajara way and return via Muarras way; and no doubt, 
whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Mecca, he used to offer the prayer in the Mosque of Ash-Shajara; 
and on his return, he used to offer the prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa in the middle of the valley, and pass the 
night there till morning.
Bukhari:1534 Narrated `Umar:In the valley of Al-`Aqiq I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "To night a messenger came to me from my 
Lord and asked me to pray in this blessed valley and to assume Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together. "
Bukhari:1535 Narrated Musa bin `Uqba:Salim bin `Abdullah's father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said that while resting in the bottom of the valley at 
Muarras in Dhul-Hulaifa, he had been addressed in a dream: 'You are verily in a blessed valley.' " 
Salim made us to dismount from our camels at the place where `Abdullah used to dismount, aiming at 
the place where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had rested and it was below the Mosque situated in the middle of the 
valley in between them (the residence) and the road.
Bukhari:1536 Narrated Safwan bin Ya'la:Ya'la said to 'Umar, "Show me the Prophet (ﷺ) when he is being inspired Divinely." While the Prophet (ﷺ) was at Ji'rana (in the company of some of his Companions) a person came and asked, "O Allah's Messenger! What is your verdict regarding that person who assumes Ihram for 'Umra and is scented with perfume ?" The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet for a while and he was Divinely inspired (then). 'Umar beckoned Ya'la. So he came, and the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shaded with sheet. Ya'la put his head in and saw that the face of Allah's Messenger was red and he was snoring. When the state of the Prophet (ﷺ) was over, he (ﷺ) asked, "Where is the person who asked about 'Umra?" Then that person was brought and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wash the perfume off your body thrice and take off the cloak and do the same in 'Umra as you do in Hajj."
Bukhari:1537 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Umar used to oil his hair. I told that to Ibrahim who said, "What do you think about this 
statement: Narrated Aswad from `Aisha: As if I were now observing the glitter of the scent in the 
parting of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was Muhrim?"
Bukhari:1538 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Umar used to oil his hair. I told that to Ibrahim who said, "What do you think about this 
statement: Narrated Aswad from `Aisha: As if I were now observing the glitter of the scent in the 
parting of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was Muhrim?"
Bukhari:1539 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) I used to scent Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he wanted to assume Ihram 
and also on finishing Ihram before the Tawaf round the Ka`ba (Tawaf-al-ifada).
Bukhari:1540 Narrated Salim from his father:I heard that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assumed Ihram with his hair matted together.
Bukhari:1541 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:I heard my father saying, "Never did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assume Ihram except at the Mosque, that is, at 
the Mosque of Dhul-Hulaifa.
Bukhari:1542 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A man asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What kind of clothes should a Muhrim wear?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
replied, "He should not wear a shirt, a turban, trousers, a headcloak or leather socks except if he can 
find no slippers, he then may wear leather socks after cutting off what might cover the ankles. And he 
should not wear clothes which are scented with saffron or Wars (kinds of Perfumes) . "
Bukhari:1543 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah:Ibn `Abbas' said, "Usama rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from `Arafat to Al-Muzdalifa; and then Al-Fadl 
rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina." Ibn `Abbas added, "Both of them said, 'The 
Prophet kept on reciting Talbiya till he did the Rami of Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba.' "
Bukhari:1544 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah:Ibn `Abbas' said, "Usama rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from `Arafat to Al-Muzdalifa; and then Al-Fadl 
rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina." Ibn `Abbas added, "Both of them said, 'The 
Prophet kept on reciting Talbiya till he did the Rami of Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba.' "
Bukhari:1545 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) with his companions started from Medina after combing and oiling his hair and putting 
on two sheets of lhram (upper body cover and waist cover). He did not forbid anyone to wear any kind 
of sheets except the ones colored with saffron because they may leave the scent on the skin. And so in 
the early morning, the Prophet (ﷺ) mounted his Mount while in Dhul-Hulaifa and set out till they reached 
Baida', where he and his companions recited Talbiya, and then they did the ceremony of Taqlid 
(which means to put the colored garlands around the necks of the Budn (camels for sacrifice). And all 
that happened on the 25th of Dhul-Qa'da. And when he reached Mecca on the 4th of Dhul-Hijja he 
performed the Tawaf round the Ka`ba and performed the Tawaf between Safa and Marwa. And as he 
had a Badana and had garlanded it, he did not finish his Ihram. He proceeded towards the highest 
places of Mecca near Al-Hujun and he was assuming the Ihram for Hajj and did not go near the Ka`ba 
after he performed Tawaf (round it) till he returned from `Arafat. Then he ordered his companions to 
perform the Tawaf round the Ka`ba and then the Tawaf of Safa and Marwa, and to cut short the hair 
of their heads and to finish their Ihram. And that was only for those people who had not garlanded 
Budn. Those who had their wives with them were permitted to contact them (have sexual intercourse), 
and similarly perfume and (ordinary) clothes were permissible for them.
Bukhari:1546 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at in Medina and then two rak`at at Dhul Hulaifa and then passed the 
night at Dhul-Hulaifa till it was morning and when he mounted his Mount and it stood up, he started 
to recite Talbiya.
Bukhari:1547 Narrated Abu Qilaba:Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of the Zuhr prayer in Medina and two rak`at of 
`Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa." I think that the Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night there till morning.
Bukhari:1548 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of the Zuhr prayer in Medina and two rak`at of the `Asr prayer in 
Dhul-Hulaifa and I heard them (the companions of the Prophet) reciting Talbiya together loudly to the 
extent of shouting.
Bukhari:1549 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Talbiya of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was : 'Labbaika Allahumma labbaik, Labbaika la sharika Laka labbaik, 
Inna-l-hamda wan-ni'mata Laka walmulk, La sharika Laka' (I respond to Your call O Allah, I respond 
to Your call, and I am obedient to Your orders, You have no partner, I respond to Your call All the 
praises and blessings are for You, All the sovereignty is for You, And You have no partners with you.
Bukhari:1550 Narrated `Aisha:I know how the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say (Talbiya) and it was: 'Labbaika Allahumma Labbaik, Labbaika la 
sharika Laka labbaik, Inna-l-hamda wan-ni'mata Laka walmu Lk, La sharika Laka'.
Bukhari:1551 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer at Medina and we were in his company, and two 
rak`at of the `Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa and then passed the night there till it was dawn; then he rode, 
and when he reached Al-Baida', he praised and glorified Allah and said Takbir (i.e. Al hamdu-li l-lah 
and Subhanallah(1) and Allahu-Akbar). Then he and the people along with him recited Talbiya with 
the intention of performing Hajj and Umra. When we reached (Mecca) he ordered us to finish the 
lhram (after performing the Umra) (only those who had no Hadi (animal for sacrifice) with them were 
asked to do so) till the day of Tarwiya that is 8th Dhul-Hijja when they assumed Ihram for Hajj. The 
Prophet sacrificed many camels (slaughtering them) with his own hands while standing. While Allah's 
Apostle was in Medina he sacrificed two horned rams black and white in color in the Name of Allah."
Bukhari:1552 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) recited Talbiya when he had mounted his Mount and was ready to set out.
Bukhari:1553 Narrated Nafi', 'Whenever Ibn 'Umar finished his morning Salat at Dhul-Hulaifa he would get his Rahila (mount) prepared. Then, he would ride on it, and after it had stood up straight (ready to set out), he would face Al-Qiblah (the Ka,bah at Makkah) while sitting (on his mount) and recite Talbiya. When he had reached the boundaries of the Haram (or Makkah), he would stop recitation of Talbiya till he reached Dhi-Tuwa (near Makkah) where he would pass the night till it was dawn. After offering the morning Salat, he would take a bath. He claimed that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had done the same.
Bukhari:1554 Narrated Nafi`:Whenever Ibn `Umar intended to go to Mecca he used to oil himself with a sort of oil that had no 
pleasant smell, then he would go to the Mosque of Al-Hulaita and offer the prayer, and then ride. 
When he mounted well on his Mount and the Mount stood up straight, he would proclaim the 
intention of assuming Ihram, and he used to say that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) doing the same.
Bukhari:1555 Narrated Mujahid:I was in the company of Ibn `Abbas and the people talked about Ad-Dajjal and said, "Ad-Dajjal will 
come with the word Kafir (non-believer) written in between his eyes." On that Ibn `Abbas said, "I 
have not heard this from the Prophet (ﷺ) but I heard him saying, 'As if I saw Moses just now entering the 
valley reciting Talbyia. ' "
Bukhari:1556 Narrated Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) in his last Hajj and we assumed Ihram 
for Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Whoever has the Hadi with him should assume Ihram for Hajj 
along with `Umra and should not finish the Ihram till he finishes both." I was menstruating when I 
reached Mecca, and so I neither did Tawaf round the Ka`ba nor Tawaf between Safa and Marwa. I 
complained about that to the Prophet (ﷺ) on which he replied, "Undo and comb your head hair, and 
assume Ihram for Hajj (only) and leave the Umra." So, I did so. When we had performed the Hajj, the 
Prophet sent me with my brother `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr to Tan`im. So I performed the `Umra. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "This `Umra is instead of your missed one." Those who had assumed Ihram 
for `Umra (Hajj-atTamattu) performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa and then 
finished their Ihram. After returning from Mina, they performed another Tawaf (between Safa and 
Marwa). Those who had assumed Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together (Hajj-al-Qiran) performed only 
one Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa).
Bukhari:1557 Narrated Ata:Jabir said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Ali to keep on assuming his Ihram." The narrator then informed 
about the narration of Suraqa.
Bukhari:1558 Narrated Anas bin Malik:`Ali came to the Prophet (p.b.u.h) from Yemen (to Mecca). The Prophet (ﷺ) asked `Ali, "With what 
intention have you assumed Ihram?" `Ali replied, "I have assumed Ihram with the same intention as 
that of the Prophet." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I had not the Hadi with me I would have finished the 
Ihram." Muhammad bin Bakr narrated extra from Ibn Juraij, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said to `Ali, "With what 
intention have you assumed the Ihram, O `Ali?" He replied, "With the same (intention) as that of the 
Prophet." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have a Hadi and keep your Ihram as it is."
Bukhari:1559 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me to some people in Yemen and when I returned, I found him at Al-Batha. He 
asked me, "With what intention have you assumed Ihram (i.e. for Hajj or for Umra or for both?") I 
replied, "I have assumed Ihram with an intention like that of the Prophet." He asked, "Have you a 
Hadi with you?" I replied in the negative. He ordered me to perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and 
between Safa and Marwa and then to finish my Ihram. I did so and went to a woman from my tribe 
who combed my hair or washed my head. Then, when `Umar came (i.e. became Caliph) he said, "If 
we follow Allah's Book, it orders us to complete Hajj and Umra; as Allah says: "Perform the Hajj and 
Umra for Allah." (2.196). And if we follow the tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ) who did not finish his Ihram 
till he sacrificed his Hadi."
Bukhari:1560 Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:' Aisha said, "We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s in the months of Hajj, and (in) the nights of Hajj, and 
at the time and places of Hajj and in a state of Hajj. We dismounted at Sarif (a village six miles from 
Mecca). The Prophet (ﷺ) then addressed his companions and said, "Anyone who has not got the Hadi and 
likes to do Umra instead of Hajj may do so (i.e. Hajj-al-Tamattu`) and anyone who has got the Hadi 
should not finish the Ihram after performing ' `Umra). (i.e. Hajj-al-Qiran). Aisha added, "The 
companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) obeyed the above (order) and some of them (i.e. who did not have Hadi) 
finished their Ihram after Umra." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and some of his companions were resourceful and 
had the Hadi with them, they could not perform Umra (alone) (but had to perform both Hajj and Umra 
with one Ihram). Aisha added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and saw me weeping and said, "What 
makes you weep, O Hantah?" I replied, "I have heard your conversation with your companions and I 
cannot perform the Umra." He asked, "What is wrong with you?' I replied, ' I do not offer the prayers 
(i.e. I have my menses).' He said, ' It will not harm you for you are one of the daughters of Adam, and 
Allah has written for you (this state) as He has written it for them. Keep on with your intentions for 
Hajj and Allah may reward you that." Aisha further added, "Then we proceeded for Hajj till we 
reached Mina and I became clean from my menses. 
Then I went out from Mina and performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba." Aisha added, "I went along with 
the Prophet (ﷺ) in his final departure (from Hajj) till he dismounted at Al-Muhassab (a valley outside 
Mecca), and we too, dismounted with him." He called ' `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr and said to 
him, ' Take your sister outside the sanctuary of Mecca and let her assume Ihram for ' `Umra, and when 
you had finished ' `Umra, return to this place and I will wait for you both till you both return to me.' " ' 
Aisha added, " So we went out of the sanctuary of Mecca and after finishing from the ' `Umra and the 
Tawaf we returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) at dawn. He said, 'Have you performed the ' `Umra?' We replied in 
the affirmative. So he announced the departure amongst his companions and the people set out for the 
journey, and the Prophet: too left for Medina.''
Bukhari:1561 Narrated Al-Aswad:' Aisha said, We went out with the Prophet (from Medina) with the intention of performing Hajj only 
and when we reached Mecca we performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba and then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered those 
who had not driven the Hadi along with them to finish their Ihram. So the people who had not driven 
the Hadi along with them finished their Ihram. The Prophet's wives, too, had not driven the Hadi with 
them, so they too, finished their Ihram." `Aisha added, "I got my menses and could not perform Tawaf 
round the Ka`ba." So when it was the night of Hasba (i.e. when we stopped at Al-Muhassab), I said, 
'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Everyone is returning after performing Hajj and `Umra but I am returning after 
performing Hajj only.' He said, 'Didn't you perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba the night we reached 
Mecca?' I replied in the negative. He said, 'Go with your brother to Tan`im and assume the Ihram for 
`Umra, (and after performing it) come back to such and such a place.' On that Safiya said, 'I feel that I 
will detain you all.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O 'Aqra Halqa! Didn't you perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba on the 
day of sacrifice? (i.e. Tawaf-al-ifada) Safiya replied in the affirmative. He said, (to Safiya). 'There is 
no harm for you to proceed on with us.' " `Aisha added, "(after returning from `Umra), the Prophet (ﷺ) 
met me while he was ascending (from Mecca) and I was descending to it, or I was ascending and he 
was descending."
Bukhari:1562 Narrated `Aisha:We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s (to Mecca) in the year of the Prophet's Last Hajj. Some of us had 
assumed Ihram for `Umra only, some for both Hajj and `Umra, and others for Hajj only. Allah's 
Apostle assumed Ihram for Hajj. So whoever had assumed Ihram for Hajj or for both Hajj and `Umra 
did not finish the Ihram till the day of sacrifice. (See Hadith No. 631, 636, and 639).
Bukhari:1563 Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam:I saw `Uthman and `Ali. `Uthman used to forbid people to perform Hajj-at-Tamattu` and Hajj-al- 
Qiran (Hajj and `Umra together), and when `Ali saw (this act of `Uthman), he assumed Ihram for Hajj 
and `Umra together saying, "Lubbaik for `Umra and Hajj," and said, "I will not leave the tradition of 
the Prophet (ﷺ) on the saying of somebody."
Bukhari:1564 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The people (of the Pre-Islamic Period) used to think that to perform `Umra during the months of Hajj 
was one of the major sins on earth. And also used to consider the month of Safar as a forbidden (i.e. 
sacred) month and they used to say, "When the wounds of the camel's back heal up (after they return 
from Hajj) and the signs of those wounds vanish and the month of Safar passes away then (at that 
time) `Umra is permissible for the one who wishes to perform it." In the morning of the 4th of Dhul- 
Hijja, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions reached Mecca, assuming Ihram for Hajj and he ordered his 
companions to make their intentions of the Ihram for `Umra only (instead of Hajj) so they considered 
his order as something great and were puzzled, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What kind (of finishing) 
of Ihram is allowed?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Finish the Ihram completely like a non-Muhrim (you are 
allowed everything)."
Bukhari:1565 Narrated Abu Musa:came to the Prophet (from Yemen and was assuming Ihram for Hajj) and he ordered me to finish the 
Ihram (after performing the `Umra).
Bukhari:1566 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Hafsa the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have the people finished their Ihram after 
performing `Umra but you have not finished your Ihram after performing `Umra?" He replied, "I have 
matted my hair and garlanded my Hadi. So I will not finish my Ihram till I have slaughtered (my 
Hadi). "
Bukhari:1567 Narrated Shu`ba:Abu Jamra Nasr bin `Imran Ad-Duba'i said, "I intended to perform Hajj-at-Tamattu` and the people 
advised me not to do so. I asked Ibn `Abbas regarding it and he ordered me to perform Hajj-at- 
Tammatu'. Later I saw in a dream someone saying to me, 'Hajj-Mabrur (Hajj performed in accordance 
with the Prophet's tradition without committing sins and accepted by Allah) and an accepted `Umra.' 
So I told that dream to Ibn `Abbas. He said, 'This is the tradition of Abul-Qasim.' Then he said to me, 
'Stay with me and I shall give you a portion of my property.' " I (Shu`ba) asked, "Why (did he invite 
you)?" He (Abu Jamra) said, "Because of the dream which I had seen."
Bukhari:1568 Narrated Abu Shihab:I left for Mecca for Hajj-at-Tamattu` assuming Ihram for `Umra. I reached Mecca three days before 
the day of Tarwiya (8th Dhul-Hijja). Some people of Mecca said to me, "Your Hajj will be like the 
Hajj performed by the people of Mecca (i.e. you will lose the superiority of assuming Ihram from the 
Miqat). So I went to `Ata' asking him his view about it. He said, "Jabir bin `Abdullah narrated to me, 'I 
performed Hajj with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day when he drove camels with him. The people had 
assumed Ihram for Hajj-al-Ifrad. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to finish their Ihram after Tawaf round the 
Ka`ba, and between Safa and Marwa and to cut short their hair and then to stay there (in Mecca) as 
non-Muhrims till the day of Tarwiya (i.e. 8th of Dhul-Hijja) when they would assume Ihram for Hajj 
and they were ordered to make the Ihram with which they had come as for `Umra only. They asked, 
'How can we make it `Umra (Tamattu`) as we have intended to perform Hajj?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do 
what I have ordered you. Had I not brought the Hadi with me, I would have done the same, but I 
cannot finish my Ihram till the Hadi reaches its destination (i.e. is slaughtered).' So, they did (what he 
ordered them to do)."
Bukhari:1569 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:`Ali and `Uthman differed regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu` while they were at 'Usfan (a familiar place near 
Mecca). `Ali said, "I see you want to forbid people to do a thing that the Prophet (ﷺ) did?" When `Ali saw 
that, he assumed Ihram for both Hajj and `Umra.
Bukhari:1570 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:We came with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (to Mecca) and we were saying: 'Labbaika Allahumma Labbaik' for 
Hajj. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to perform `Umra with that Ihram (instead of Hajj).
Bukhari:1571 Narrated `Imran:We performed Hajj-at-Tamattu` in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then the Qur'an was revealed 
(regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu`) and somebody said what he wished (regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu`) 
according his own opinion.
Bukhari:1572 Ibn 'Abbas said that he has been asked regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu' on which he said:"The Muhajirin and the Ansar and the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) and we did the same. When we reached Makkah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give up your intention of doing the Hajj (at this moment) and perform 'Umra, except the one who had garlanded the Hady." So, we performed Tawaf round the Ka'bah and [Sa'y] between As-safa and Al-MArwa, slept with our wives and wore ordinary (stitched) clothes. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Whoever has garlanded his Hady is not allowed to finish the Ihram till the Hady has reached its destination (has been sacrificed)". Then on the night of Tarwiya (8th Dhul Hijjah, in the afternoon) he ordered us to assume Ihram for Hajj and when we have performed all the ceremonies of Hajj, we came and performed Tawaf round the Ka'bah and (Sa'y) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa, and then our Hajj was complete, and we had to sacrifice a Hady according to the statement of Allah:"... He must slaughter a Hady such as he can afford, but if he cannot afford it, he should observer Saum (fasts) three days during the Hajj and seven days after his return (to his home)…." (V. 2:196).And the sacrifice of the sheep is sufficient. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his Companions joined the two religious deeds, (i.e. Hajj and 'Umra) in one year, for Allah revealed (the permissibility) of such practice in His book and in the Sunna (legal ways) of His Prophet (ﷺ) and rendered it permissible for all the people except those living in Makkah. Allah says: "This is for him whose family is not present at the Al-Masjid-Al-Haram, (i.e. non resident of Makkah)." The months of Hajj which Allah mentioned in His book are: Shawwal, Dhul-Qa'da and Dhul-Hijjah. Whoever performed Hajj-at-Tamattu' in those months, then slaughtering or fasting is compulsory for him.The words: 1. Ar-Rafatha means sexual intercourse. 2. Al-Fasuq means all kinds of sin, and 3. Al-Jidal means to dispute.
Bukhari:1573 Narrated Nafi`:On reaching the sanctuary of Mecca, Ibn `Umar used to stop, reciting Talbiya and then he would pass 
the night at Dhi-Tuwa and then offer the Fajr prayer and take a bath. He used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) 
used to do the same.
Bukhari:1574 Narrated Nafi`:' Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night at Dhi-Tuwa till it was dawn and then he entered 
Mecca." Ibn `Umar used to do the same.
Bukhari:1575 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter Mecca from the high Thaniya and used to leave Mecca from the low 
Thaniya.
Bukhari:1576 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' from the highest Thaniya which is at Al-Batha' and used to 
leave Mecca from the low Thaniya.
Bukhari:1577 Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca he entered from its higher side and left from its lower side.
Bukhari:1578 Narrated `Aisha':In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' and left Mecca from 
Kuda, from the higher part of Mecca.
Bukhari:1579 Narrated `Aisha:In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' at the higher place of 
Mecca. (Hisham, a sub-narrator said, " `Urwa used to enter (Mecca) from both Kada' and Kuda and he 
often entered through Kada' which was nearer to his dwelling place.)"
Bukhari:1580 Narrated Hisham:`Urwa said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca in the year of the conquest of Mecca from the side of Kada' 
which is at the higher part of Mecca." `Urwa often entered from Kada' which was nearer of the two to 
his dwelling place.
Bukhari:1581 Narrated Hisham from his father:In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from the side of Kada. `Urwa used to 
enter through both places and he often entered through Kada' which was nearer of the two to his 
dwelling place.
Bukhari:1582 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:When the Ka`ba was built, the Prophet (ﷺ) and `Abbas went to bring stones (for its construction). Al 
`Abbas said to the Prophet, "Take off your waist sheet and put it on your neck." (When the Prophet (ﷺ) 
took it off) he fell on the ground with his eyes open towards the sky and said, "Give me my waist 
sheet." And he covered himself with it.
Bukhari:1583 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to her, "Do you know that when your people 
(Quraish) rebuilt the Ka`ba, they decreased it from its original foundation laid by Abraham?" I said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why don't you rebuild it on its original foundation laid by Abraham?" He replied, 
"Were it not for the fact that your people are close to the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance (i.e. they 
have recently become Muslims) I would have done so." The sub-narrator, `Abdullah (bin `Umar ) 
stated: `Aisha 'must have heard this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for in my opinion Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not 
placed his hand over the two corners of the Ka`ba opposite Al-Hijr only because the Ka`ba was not 
rebuilt on its original foundations laid by Abraham.
Bukhari:1584 Narrated `Aisha:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) whether the round wall (near Ka`ba) was part of the Ka`ba. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in 
the affirmative. I further said, "What is wrong with them, why have they not included it in the building 
of the Ka`ba?" He said, "Don't you see that your people (Quraish) ran short of money (so they could 
not include it inside the building of Ka`ba)?" I asked, "What about its gate? Why is it so high?" He 
replied, "Your people did this so as to admit into it whomever they liked and prevent whomever they 
liked. Were your people not close to the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance (i.e. they have recently 
embraced Islam) and were I not afraid that they would dislike it, surely I would have included the 
(area of the) wall inside the building of the Ka`ba and I would have lowered its gate to the level of the 
ground."
Bukhari:1585 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Were your people not close to the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance, I 
would have demolished the Ka`ba and would have rebuilt it on its original foundations laid by 
Abraham (for Quraish had curtailed its building), and I would have built a back door (too)."
Bukhari:1586 Narrated Yazid bin Ruman from `Urwa:`Aisha said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "O Aisha! Were your nation not close to the Pre-Islamic 
Period of Ignorance, I would have had the Ka`ba demolished and would have included in it the portion 
which had been left, and would have made it at a level with the ground and would have made two 
doors for it, one towards the east and the other towards the west, and then by doing this it would have 
been built on the foundations laid by Abraham." That was what urged Ibn-Az-Zubair to demolish the 
Ka`ba. Jazz said, "I saw Ibn-Az-Zubair when he demolished and rebuilt the Ka`ba and included in it a 
portion of Al-Hijr (the unroofed portion of Ka`ba which is at present in the form of a compound 
towards the northwest of the Ka`ba). I saw the original foundations of Abraham which were of stones 
resembling the humps of camels." So Jarir asked Yazid, "Where was the place of those stones?" Jazz 
said, "I will just now show it to you." So Jarir accompanied Yazid and entered Al-Hijr, and Jazz 
pointed to a place and said, "Here it is." Jarir said, "It appeared to me about six cubits from Al-Hijr or 
so."
Bukhari:1587 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:On the Day of the Conquest of Mecca, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has made this town a sanctuary. 
Its thorny bushes should not be cut, its game should not be chased, and its fallen things should not be 
picked up except by one who would announce it publicly."
Bukhari:1588 Narrated 'Usama bin Zaid:I asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Where will you stay in Mecca? Will you stay in your house in Mecca?" 
He replied, "Has `Aqil left any property or house?" `Aqil along with Talib had inherited the property 
of Abu Talib. Jafar and `Ali did not inherit anything as they were Muslims and the other two were 
non-believers. `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to say, "A believer cannot inherit (anything from an) 
infidel." Ibn Shihab, (a sub-narrator) said, "They (`Umar and others) derived the above verdict from 
Allah's Statement: "Verily! those who believed and Emigrated and strove with their life And property 
in Allah's Cause, And those who helped (the emigrants) And gave them their places to live in, These 
are (all) allies to one another." (8.72)
Bukhari:1589 Narrated Abu Huraira:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to enter Mecca he said, "Our destination tomorrow, if Allah wished, 
will be Khaif Bani Kinana where (the pagans) had taken the oath of Kufr." (Against the Prophet (ﷺ) i.e. to 
be loyal to heathenism by boycotting Bani Hashim, the Prophet's folk) (SeeHadith 3882)
Bukhari:1590 Narrated Abu Huraira:On the Day of Nahr at Mina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow we shall stay at Khaif Bani Kinana where 
the pagans had taken the oath of Kufr (heathenism)." He meant (by that place) Al-Muhassab where the 
Quraish tribe and Bani Kinana concluded a contract against Bani Hashim and Bani `Abdul-Muttalib or 
Bani Al-Muttalib that they would not intermarry with them or deal with them in business until they 
handed over the Prophet (ﷺ) to them.
Bukhari:1591 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet;; said, "Dhus-Suwaiqa-tain (literally: One with two lean legs) from Ethiopia will 
demolish the Ka`ba."
Bukhari:1592 Narrated `Aisha:The people used to fast on 'Ashura (the tenth day of the month of Muharram) before the fasting of 
Ramadan was made obligatory. And on that day the Ka`ba used to be covered with a cover. When 
Allah made the fasting of the month of Ramadan compulsory, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever wishes 
to fast (on the day of 'Ashura') may do so; and whoever wishes to leave it can do so."
Bukhari:1593 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "The people will continue performing the Hajj and `Umra to the Ka`ba even after the 
appearance of Gog and Magog." 
Narrated Shu`ba extra: 
The Hour (Day of Judgment) will not be established till the Hajj (to the Ka`ba) is abandoned.
Bukhari:1594 Narrated Abu Wail:(One day) I sat along with Shaiba on the chair inside the Ka`ba. He (Shaiba) said, "No doubt, `Umar 
sat at this place and said, 'I intended not to leave any yellow (i.e. gold) or white (i.e. silver) (inside the 
Ka`ba) undistributed.' I said (to `Umar), 'But your two companions (i.e. The Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr) 
did not do so.' `Umar said, They are the two persons whom I always follow.' "
Bukhari:1595 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As if I were looking at him, a black person with thin legs plucking the stones of the 
Ka`ba one after another. "
Bukhari:1596 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Dhus-Suwaiqatain (the thin legged man) from Ethiopia will demolish the 
Ka`ba."
Bukhari:1597 Narrated `Abis bin Rabi`a:`Umar came near the Black Stone and kissed it and said "No doubt, I know that you are a stone and 
can neither benefit anyone nor harm anyone. Had I not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissing you I would not 
have kissed you."
Bukhari:1598 Narrated Salim that his father said:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Usama bin Zaid, Bilal, and `Uthman bin abu Talha entered the Ka`ba and then 
closed its door. When they opened the door I was the first person to enter (the Ka`ba). I met Bilal and 
asked him, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offer a prayer inside (the Ka`ba)?" Bilal replied in the affirmative and 
said, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the prayer) in between the two right pillars."
Bukhari:1599 Narrated Nafi`:Whenever Ibn `Umar entered the Ka`ba he used to walk straight keeping the door at his back on 
entering, and used to proceed on till about three cubits from the wall in front of him, and then he 
would offer the prayer there aiming at the place where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed, as Bilal had told him. 
There is no harm for any person to offer the prayer at any place inside the Ka`ba.
Bukhari:1600 Narrated Isma'li bin Abu Khalid:`Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the `Umra. He performed Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba and offered two rak`at behind the Maqam (Abraham's place) and was accompanied by those 
who were screening him from the people." Somebody asked `Abdullah, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) enter the 
Ka`ba?" `Abdullah replied in the negative.
Bukhari:1601 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Mecca, he refused to enter the Ka`ba with idols in it. He ordered (idols 
to be taken out). So they were taken out. The people took out the pictures of Abraham and Ishmael 
holding Azlams in their hands. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah curse these people. By Allah, both 
Abraham and Ishmael never did the game of chance with Azlams." Then he entered the Ka`ba and 
said Takbir at its corners but did not offer the prayer in it.
Bukhari:1602 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions came to Mecca, the pagans circulated the news that a group 
of people were coming to them and they had been weakened by the Fever of Yathrib (Medina). So the 
Prophet ordered his companions to do Ramal in the first three rounds of Tawaf of the Ka`ba and to 
walk between the two corners (The Black Stone and Yemenite corner). The Prophet (ﷺ) did not order 
them to do Ramal in all the rounds of Tawaf out of pity for them.
Bukhari:1603 Narrated Salim that his father said:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arriving at Mecca; he kissed the Black Stone Corner first while doing Tawaf and 
did ramal in the first three rounds of the seven rounds (of Tawaf).
Bukhari:1604 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) did Ramal in (first) three rounds (of Tawaf), and walked in the remaining four, in Hajj 
and Umra.
Bukhari:1605 Narrated Zaid bin Aslam from his father who said:"`Umar bin Al-Khattab addressed the Corner (Black Stone) saying, 'By Allah! I know that you are a 
stone and can neither benefit nor harm. Had I not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) touching (and kissing) you, I would 
never have touched (and kissed) you.' Then he kissed it and said, 'There is no reason for us to do 
Ramal (in Tawaf) except that we wanted to show off before the pagans, and now Allah has destroyed 
them.' `Umar added, '(Nevertheless), the Prophet (ﷺ) did that and we do not want to leave it (i.e. Ramal).'
Bukhari:1606 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar. said, "I have never missed the touching of these two stones of Ka`ba (the Black Stone and 
the Yemenite Corner) both in the presence and the absence of crowds, since I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) 
touching them." I asked Nafi`: "Did Ibn `Umar use to walk between the two Corners?" Nafi` replied, 
"He used to walk in order that it might be easy for him to touch it (the Corner Stone)."
Bukhari:1607 Narrated Ibn `Abbas.:In his Last Hajj the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba riding a camel and pointed a bent-headed 
stick towards the Corner (Black Stone).
Bukhari:1608 Abu Ash-Sha'tha said, "Who keeps away from some portion of the Ka'bah?" Mu'awiya used to touch the four corners of the Ka'bah, Ibn 'Abbas said to him, "These two corners (the one facing the Hijr) are not to be touched." Mu'awiya said, "Nothing is untouchable in the Ka'bah." And Ibn Az-Zubair used to touch all the corners of the Ka'bah.
Bukhari:1609 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah that his father said:"I have not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) touching except the two Yemenite Corners (i.e. the ones facing Yemen)."
Bukhari:1610 Narrated Zaid bin Aslam that his father said:"I saw `Umar bin Al-Khattab kissing the Black Stone and he then said, (to it) 'Had I not seen Allah's 
Apostle kissing you, (stone) I would not have kissed you.' "
Bukhari:1611 Narrated Az-Zubair bin 'Arabi:A man asked Ibn `Umar about the touching of the Black Stone. Ibn `Umar said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
touching and kissing it." The questioner said, "But if there were a throng (much rush) round the Ka`ba 
and the people overpowered me, (what would I do?)" He replied angrily, "Stay in Yemen (as that man 
was from Yemen). I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching and kissing it."
Bukhari:1612 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba while riding a camel, and whenever he came in front of 
the Corner, he pointed towards it (with something).
Bukhari:1613 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba riding a camel, and every time he came in front of the 
Corner (having the Black Stone), he pointed towards it with something he had with him and said 
Takbir.
Bukhari:1614 Narrated `Urwa:`Aisha said, "The first thing the Prophet (ﷺ) did on reaching Mecca, was the ablution and then he 
performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and that was not `Umra (alone), (but Hajj-al-Qiran). `Urwa added: 
Later Abu Bakr and `Umar did the same in their Hajj." And I performed the Hajj with my father Az- 
Zubair, and the first thing he did was Tawaf of the Ka`ba. Later I saw the Muhajirin (Emigrants) and 
the Ansar doing the same. My mother (Asma') told me that she, her sister (`Aisha), Az-Zubair and 
such and such persons assumed Ihram for `Umra, and after they passed their hands over the Black 
Stone Corner (of the Ka`ba) they finished the Ihram. (i.e. After doing Tawaf of the Ka`ba and Sa`i 
between Safa-Marwa.
Bukhari:1615 Narrated `Urwa:`Aisha said, "The first thing the Prophet (ﷺ) did on reaching Mecca, was the ablution and then he 
performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and that was not `Umra (alone), (but Hajj-al-Qiran). `Urwa added: 
Later Abu Bakr and `Umar did the same in their Hajj." And I performed the Hajj with my father Az- 
Zubair, and the first thing he did was Tawaf of the Ka`ba. Later I saw the Muhajirin (Emigrants) and 
the Ansar doing the same. My mother (Asma') told me that she, her sister (`Aisha), Az-Zubair and 
such and such persons assumed Ihram for `Umra, and after they passed their hands over the Black 
Stone Corner (of the Ka`ba) they finished the Ihram. (i.e. After doing Tawaf of the Ka`ba and Sa`i 
between Safa-Marwa.
Bukhari:1616 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba for Hajj or `Umra, he used to do Ramal during 
the first three rounds, and in the last four rounds he used to walk; then after the Tawaf he used to offer 
two rak`at and then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa.
Bukhari:1617 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) performed the Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he did Ramal during the first three rounds and 
in the last four rounds he used to walk and while doing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, he used to 
run in the midst of the rain water passage.
Bukhari:1618 Ibn Juraij said, " `Ata informed us that when Ibn Hisham forbade women to perform Tawaf with men he said to him, 'How do you forbid them while the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform Tawaf with the men?' I said, 'Was this before decreeing of the use of the veil or after it? `Ata took an oath and said, 'I saw it after the order of veil.' I said, 'How did they mix with the men?' `Ata said, 'The women never mixed with the men, and `A'ishah used to perform Tawaf separately and never mixed with men. Once it happened that `A'ishah was performing the Tawaf and woman said to her, 'O Mother of believers! Let us touch the Black stone.' `A'ishah said to her, 'Go yourself,' and she herself refused to do so. The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to come out in night, in disguise and used to perform Tawaf with men. But whenever they intended to enter the Ka`bah, they would stay outside till the men had gone out. I and `Ubaid bin `Umair used to visit `A'ishah while she was residing at Jauf Thabir." I asked, "What was her veil?" `Ata said, "She was wearing an old Turkish veil, and that was the only thing (veil) which was screen between us and her. I saw a pink cover on her."
Bukhari:1619 Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was ill. So he said, "Perform the Tawaf 
while riding behind the people." I did so, and at that time the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba 
and reciting Surat-at-Tur.
Bukhari:1620 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he passed by a person who had tied his hands 
to another person with a rope or string or something like that. The Prophet (ﷺ) cut it with his own hands 
and said, "Lead him by the hand."
Bukhari:1621 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba tied with a string or something else. So the 
Prophet cut that string.
Bukhari:1622 Narrated Abu Huraira:In the year prior to the last Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made Abu Bakr the leader of the 
pilgrims, the latter (Abu Bakr) sent me in the company of a group of people to make a public 
announcement: 'No pagan is allowed to perform Hajj after this year, and no naked person is allowed to 
perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba.' (See Hadith No. 365 Vol. 1)
Bukhari:1623 Narrated `Amr:We asked Ibn `Umar: "May a man have sexual relations with his wife during the Umra before 
performing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?" He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived (in Mecca) and 
circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times, then offered two rak`at behind Maqam Ibrahim (the station 
of Abraham), then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa." Ibn `Umar added, "Verily! In Allah's 
Apostle you have a good example." And I asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question), and he 
replied, "You should not go near your wives (have sexual relations) till you have finished Tawaf 
between Safa and Marwa. "
Bukhari:1624 Narrated `Amr:We asked Ibn `Umar: "May a man have sexual relations with his wife during the Umra before 
performing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?" He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived (in Mecca) and 
circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times, then offered two rak`at behind Maqam Ibrahim (the station 
of Abraham), then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa." Ibn `Umar added, "Verily! In Allah's 
Apostle you have a good example." And I asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question), and he 
replied, "You should not go near your wives (have sexual relations) till you have finished Tawaf 
between Safa and Marwa. "
Bukhari:1625 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and Sa`i between Safa and Marwa, 
but he did not go near the Ka`ba after his Tawaf till he returned from `Arafat.
Bukhari:1626 Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (about my illness). (Through other sub-narrators, 
Um Salama narrated that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was at Mecca and had just decided to leave (Mecca) 
while she had not yet done Tawaf of the Ka`ba (and after listening to her). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When 
the morning prayer is established, perform the Tawaf on your camel while the people are in prayer." 
So she did the same and did not offer the two rak`at of Tawaf until she came out of the Mosque.
Bukhari:1627 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times and then offered a two rak`at 
prayer behind Maqam Ibrahim. Then he went towards the Safa. Allah has said, "Verily, in Allah's 
Apostle you have a good example."
Bukhari:1628 Narrated `Urwa from Aisha:Some people performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) after the morning prayer and then sat to listen to a 
preacher till sunrise, and then they stood up for the prayer. Then Aisha commented, "Those people 
kept on sitting till it was the time in which the prayer is disliked and after that they stood up for the 
prayer."
Bukhari:1629 Narrated `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbidding the offering of prayers at the time of sunrise and sunset.
Bukhari:1630 Narrated Abida bin Humaid:`Abdul, `Aziz bin Rufa`i said, "I saw `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba after 
the morning prayer then offering the two rak`at prayer." `Abdul `Aziz added, "I saw `Abdullah bin 
Az-Zubair offering a two rak`at prayer after the `Asr prayer." He informed me that Aisha told him that 
the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer those two rak`at whenever he entered her house."
Bukhari:1631 Narrated Abida bin Humaid:`Abdul, `Aziz bin Rufa`i said, "I saw `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba after 
the morning prayer then offering the two rak`at prayer." `Abdul `Aziz added, "I saw `Abdullah bin 
Az-Zubair offering a two rak`at prayer after the `Asr prayer." He informed me that Aisha told him that 
the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer those two rak`at whenever he entered her house."
Bukhari:1632 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) riding a camel (at that time the Prophet (ﷺ) had a foot 
injury). Whenever he came to the Corner (having the Black Stone) he would point out towards it with 
a thing in his hand and say, "Allahu-Akbar."
Bukhari:1633 Narrated Um Salama:I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick. He said, "Perform Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) while riding 
behind the people." So, I performed the Tawaf while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was offering the prayer beside 
the Ka`ba and was reciting Surat-at-Tur.
Bukhari:1634 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Al `Abbas bin `Abdul-Muttalib asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to let him stay in Mecca 
during the nights of Mina in order to provide the pilgrims with water to drink, so the Prophet (ﷺ) 
permitted him.
Bukhari:1635 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to the drinking place and asked for water. Al-Abbas said, "O Fadl! Go to your 
mother and bring water from her for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give me water to drink." 
Al-Abbas said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The people put their hands in it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) again said, 'Give 
me water to drink. So, he drank from that water and then went to the Zamzam (well) and there the 
people were offering water to the others and working at it (drawing water from the well). The Prophet (ﷺ) 
then said to them, "Carry on! You are doing a good deed." Then he said, "Were I not afraid that other 
people would compete with you (in drawing water from Zamzam), I would certainly take the rope and 
put it over this (i.e. his shoulder) (to draw water)." On saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed to his shoulder.
Bukhari:1636 Narrated Anas bin Malik that Abu Dhar said:Allah's Messenger  (ﷺ) said, "The roof of my house was made open while I was at Makkah (on the night of Mi'raj) and Jibril descended. He opened up my chest and washed it with the water of Zamzam. The he brought the golden tray full of Wisdom and Belief and poured it in my chest and then closed it. The he took hold of my hand and ascended to the nearest heaven. Jibril told the gatekeeper of the nearest heaven to open the gate. The gatekeeper asked, "Who is it?" Jibril replied, "I am Jibril." (See Hadith No. 349 Vol.1)
Bukhari:1637 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I gave Zamzam water to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he drank it while standing. `Asim (a sub-narrator) said that 
`Ikrima took the oath that on that day the Prophet (ﷺ) had not been standing but riding a camel.
Bukhari:1638 Narrated `Aisha:We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of his Last Hajj and we mended (the Ihram) for `Umra. 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has a Hadi with him should assume Ihram for both Hajj and `Umra, 
and should not finish it till he performs both of the them (Hajj and `Umra)." When we reached Mecca, 
I had my menses. When we had performed our Hajj, the Prophet (ﷺ) sent me with `Abdur-Rahman to 
Tan`im and I performed the `Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is in lieu of your missed `Umra." Those 
who had assumed Ihram for `Umra performed Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) and then finished 
their Ihram. And then they performed another Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) after returning from 
Mina. And those who had assumed lhram for Hajj and `Umra to get her ( Hajj-Qiran ) performed only 
one Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa).
Bukhari:1639 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Abdullah bin `Umar and his riding animal entered the house of Ibn `Umar. He (the son 
of Ibn `Umar) said, "I fear that this year a battle might take place between the people and you might 
be prevented from going to the Ka`ba. I suggest that you should stay here." Ibn `Umar said, "Once 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for the pilgrimage, and the pagans of Quraish intervened between him and the 
Ka`ba. So, if the people intervened between me and the Ka`ba, I would do the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
had done . . . "Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example." Then he added, "I make you a 
witness that I have intended to perform Hajj along with `Umra." After arriving at Mecca, Ibn `Umar 
performed one Tawaf only (between Safa and Marwa).
Bukhari:1640 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar intended to perform Hajj in the year when Al-Hajjaj attacked Ibn Az-Zubair. Somebody 
said to Ibn `Umar, "There is a danger of an impending war between them." Ibn `Umar said, "Verily, in 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example. (And if it happened as you say) then I would do the same as 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had done. I make you witness that I have decided to perform `Umra." Then he set out 
and when he reached Al-Baida', he said, "The ceremonies of both Hajj and `Umra are similar. I make 
you witness that I have made Hajj compulsory for me along with `Umra." He drove (to Mecca) a Hadi 
which he had bought from (a place called) Qudaid and did not do more than that. He did not slaughter 
the Hadi or finish his Ihram, or shave or cut short his hair till the day of slaughtering the sacrifices 
(10th Dhul-Hijja). Then he slaughtered his Hadi and shaved his head and considered the first Tawaf 
(of Safa and Marwa) as sufficient for Hajj and `Umra. Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same."
Bukhari:1641 Narrated Muhammad bin `Abdur-Rahman bin Nawfal Al-Qurashi:I asked `Urwa bin Az-Zubair (regarding the Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) ). `Urwa replied, "Aisha narrated, 
'When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, the first thing he started with was the ablution, then he performed 
Tawaf of the Ka`ba and his intention was not `Umra alone (but Hajj and `Umra together).' " Later Abu 
Bakr I performed the Hajj and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not 
`Umra alone (but Hajj and `Umra together). And then `Umar did the same. Then `Uthman performed 
the Hajj and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone. And 
then Muawiya and `Abdullah bin `Umar did the same. I performed Hajj with Ibn Az-Zubair and the 
first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone, (but Hajj and `Umra 
together). Then I saw the Muhajirin (Emigrants) and Ansar doing the same and it was not `Umra 
alone. And the last person I saw doing the same was Ibn `Umar, and he did not do another `Umra after 
finishing the first. Now here is Ibn `Umar present amongst the people! They neither ask him nor 
anyone of the previous ones. And all these people, on entering Mecca, would not start with anything 
unless they had performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and would not finish their Ihram. And no doubt, I saw 
my mother and my aunt, on entering Mecca doing nothing before performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and 
they would not finish their lhram. And my mother informed me that she, her sister, Az-Zubair and 
such and such persons had assumed lhram for `Umra and after passing their hands over the Corner 
(the Black Stone) (i.e. finishing their Umra) they finished their Ihram."
Bukhari:1642 Narrated Muhammad bin `Abdur-Rahman bin Nawfal Al-Qurashi:I asked `Urwa bin Az-Zubair (regarding the Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) ). `Urwa replied, "Aisha narrated, 
'When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, the first thing he started with was the ablution, then he performed 
Tawaf of the Ka`ba and his intention was not `Umra alone (but Hajj and `Umra together).' " Later Abu 
Bakr I performed the Hajj and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not 
`Umra alone (but Hajj and `Umra together). And then `Umar did the same. Then `Uthman performed 
the Hajj and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone. And 
then Muawiya and `Abdullah bin `Umar did the same. I performed Hajj with Ibn Az-Zubair and the 
first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone, (but Hajj and `Umra 
together). Then I saw the Muhajirin (Emigrants) and Ansar doing the same and it was not `Umra 
alone. And the last person I saw doing the same was Ibn `Umar, and he did not do another `Umra after 
finishing the first. Now here is Ibn `Umar present amongst the people! They neither ask him nor 
anyone of the previous ones. And all these people, on entering Mecca, would not start with anything 
unless they had performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and would not finish their Ihram. And no doubt, I saw 
my mother and my aunt, on entering Mecca doing nothing before performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and 
they would not finish their lhram. And my mother informed me that she, her sister, Az-Zubair and 
such and such persons had assumed lhram for `Umra and after passing their hands over the Corner 
(the Black Stone) (i.e. finishing their Umra) they finished their Ihram."
Bukhari:1643 Narrated `Urwa:I asked `Aisha : "How do you interpret the statement of Allah,. : Verily! (the mountains) As-Safa and 
Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah, and whoever performs the Hajj to the Ka`ba or performs 
`Umra, it is not harmful for him to perform Tawaf between them (Safa and Marwa.) (2.158). By 
Allah! (it is evident from this revelation) there is no harm if one does not perform Tawaf between Safa 
and Marwa." `Aisha said, "O, my nephew! Your interpretation is not true. Had this interpretation of 
yours been correct, the statement of Allah should have been, 'It is not harmful for him if he does not 
perform Tawaf between them.' But in fact, this divine inspiration was revealed concerning the Ansar 
who used to assume lhram for worship ping an idol called "Manat" which they used to worship at a 
place called Al-Mushallal before they embraced Islam, and whoever assumed Ihram (for the idol), 
would consider it not right to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa. 
When they embraced Islam, they asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) regarding it, saying, "O Allah's 
Apostle! We used to refrain from Tawaf between Safa and Marwa." So Allah revealed: 'Verily; (the 
mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah.' " Aisha added, "Surely, Allah's 
Apostle set the tradition of Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, so nobody is allowed to omit the Tawaf 
between them." Later on I (`Urwa) told Abu Bakr bin `Abdur-Rahman (of `Aisha's narration) and he 
said, 'I have not heard of such information, but I heard learned men saying that all the people, except 
those whom `Aisha mentioned and who used to assume lhram for the sake of Manat, used to perform 
Tawaf between Safa and Marwa. 
When Allah referred to the Tawaf of the Ka`ba and did not mention Safa and Marwa in the Qur'an, the 
people asked, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We used to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa and Allah has 
revealed (the verses concerning) Tawaf of the Ka`ba and has not mentioned Safa and Marwa. Is there 
any harm if we perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?' So Allah revealed: "Verily As-Safa and Al- 
Marwa are among the symbols of Allah." Abu Bakr said, "It seems that this verse was revealed 
concerning the two groups, those who used to refrain from Tawaf between Safa and Marwa in the Pre- 
Islamic Period of ignorance and those who used to perform the Tawaf then, and after embracing Islam 
they refrained from the Tawaf between them as Allah had enjoined Tawaf of the Ka`ba and did not 
mention Tawaf (of Safa and Marwa) till later after mentioning the Tawaf of the Ka`ba.'
Bukhari:1644 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the first Tawaf he did Ramal in the first three 
rounds and then walked in the remaining four rounds (of Tawaf of the Ka`ba), where as in performing 
Tawaf between Safa and Marwa he used to run in the midst of the rainwater passage," I asked Nafi`, 
"Did `Abdullah (bin `Umar) use to walk steadily on reaching the Yemenite Corner?" He replied, "No, 
unless people were crowded at the Corner; otherwise he would not leave it without touching it."
Bukhari:1645 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:We asked Ibn `Umar whether a man who, while performing `Umra, had performed Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba; and had not yet performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, could have sexual relation with 
his wife, Ibn `Umar replied "The Prophet (p.b.u.h) reached Mecca and performed the seven rounds (of 
Tawaf) of the Ka`ba and then offered a two-rak`at prayer behind Maqam Ibrahim and then performed 
the seven rounds (of Tawaf) between Safa and Marwa." He added, "Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) you have a good example." We asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question) and he said, 
"He (that man) should not come near (his wife) till he has completed Tawaf between Safa and 
Marwa."
Bukhari:1646 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:We asked Ibn `Umar whether a man who, while performing `Umra, had performed Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba; and had not yet performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, could have sexual relation with 
his wife, Ibn `Umar replied "The Prophet (p.b.u.h) reached Mecca and performed the seven rounds (of 
Tawaf) of the Ka`ba and then offered a two-rak`at prayer behind Maqam Ibrahim and then performed 
the seven rounds (of Tawaf) between Safa and Marwa." He added, "Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) you have a good example." We asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question) and he said, 
"He (that man) should not come near (his wife) till he has completed Tawaf between Safa and 
Marwa."
Bukhari:1647 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:I heard Ibn `Umar saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and then 
offered a two-rak`at prayer and then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa." Ibn `Umar then 
recited (the verse): "Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) you have a good example. "
Bukhari:1648 Narrated `Asim:I asked Anas bin Malik: "Did you use to dislike to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?" He 
said, "Yes, as it was of the ceremonies of the days of the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance, till Allah 
revealed: 'Verily! (The two mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah. It is 
therefore no sin for him who performs the pilgrimage to the Ka`ba, or performs `Umra, to perform 
Tawaf between them.' " (2.158)
Bukhari:1649 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and the Sa`i of Safa and Marwa so as to show his 
strength to the pagans.
Bukhari:1650 Narrated `Aisha:I was menstruating when I reached Mecca. So, I neither performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, nor the Tawaf 
between Safa and Marwa. Then I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. He replied, "Perform all the 
ceremonies of Hajj like the other pilgrims, but do not perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba till you get clean 
(from your menses)."
Bukhari:1651 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions assumed Ihram for Hajj and none except the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and 
Talha had the Hadi (sacrifice) with them. `Ali arrived from Yemen and had a Hadi with him. `Ali said, 
"I have assumed Ihram for what the Prophet (ﷺ) has done." The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions to 
perform the `Umra with the lhram which they had assumed, and after finishing Tawaf (of Ka`ba, Safa 
and Marwa) to cut short their hair, and to finish their lhram except those who had Hadi with them. 
They (the people) said, "How can we proceed to Mina (for Hajj) after having sexual relations with our 
wives?" When that news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he said, "If I had formerly known what I came to know 
lately, I would not have brought the Hadi with me. Had there been no Hadi with me, I would have 
finished the state of lhram." `Aisha got her menses, so she performed all the ceremonies of Hajj except 
Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and when she got clean (from her menses), she performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba. 
She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (All of you) are returning with the Hajj and `Umra, but I am returning 
after performing Hajj only." So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr to accompany her 
to Tan`im and thus she performed the `Umra after the Hajj.
Bukhari:1652 Narrated Hafsa:(On `Id) We used to forbid our virgins to go out (for `Id prayer). A lady came and stayed at the fortress 
of Bani Khalaf. She mentioned that her sister was married to one of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
who participated in twelve Ghazawats along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and her sister was with him in six of 
them. She said, "We used to dress the wounded and look after the patients." She (her sister) asked 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , "Is there any harm for a woman to stay at home if she doesn't have a veil?" He said, 
"She should cover herself with the veil of her companion and she should take part in the good deeds 
and in the religious gatherings of the believers." When Um 'Atiyya came, I asked her. "Did you hear 
anything about that?" Um 'Atiyya said, "Bi Abi" and she never mentioned the name of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
without saying "Bi Abi" (i.e. 'Let my father be sacrificed for you'). We asked her, "Have you heard 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying so and so (about women)?" She replied in the affirmative and said, "Let my 
father be sacrificed for him. He told us that unmarried mature virgins who stay often screened or 
unmarried young virgins and mature girls who stay often screened should come out and take part in 
the good deeds and in the religious gatherings of the believers. But the menstruating women should 
keep away from the Musalla (praying place)." I asked her, "The menstruating women?" She replied, 
"Don't they present themselves at `Arafat and at such and such places?"
Bukhari:1653 Narrated `Abdul `Aziz bin Rufai:I asked Anas bin Malik, "Tell me what you remember from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (regarding these 
questions): Where did he offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers on the day of Tarwiya (8th day of Dhul- 
Hijja)?" He relied, "(He offered these prayers) at Mina." I asked, "Where did he offer the `Asr prayer 
on the day of Nafr (i.e. departure from Mina on the 12th or 13th of Dhul-Hijja)?" He replied, "At Al- 
Abtah," and then added, "You should do as your chiefs do."
Bukhari:1654 Narrated `Abdul `Aziz:I went out to Mina on the day of Tarwiya and met Anas going on a donkey. I asked him, "Where did 
the Prophet (ﷺ) offer the Zuhr prayer on this day?" Anas replied, "See where your chiefs pray and pray 
similarly."
Bukhari:1655 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered a two-rak`at prayer at Mina. Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman, (during the early 
years of his caliphate) followed the same practice.
Bukhari:1656 Narrated Haritha bin Wahab Al-Khuza`i:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in a two-rak`at prayer at Mina although our number was more than ever and we 
were in better security than ever.
Bukhari:1657 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:I offered (only a) two rak`at prayer with the Prophet (at Mina), and similarly with Abu Bakr and with 
`Umar, and then you d offered in opinions. Wish that I would be lucky enough to have two of the four 
rak`at accepted (by Allah).
Bukhari:1658 Narrated Um Al-Fadl:The people doubted whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was observing the fast on the Day of `Arafat, so I sent 
something for him to drink and he drank it.
Bukhari:1659 Narrated Muhammad bin Abu Bakr Al-Thaqafi:I asked Anas bin Malik while we were proceeding from Mina to `Arafat, "What do you use to do on 
this day when you were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" Anas said, "Some of us used to recite Talbiya and 
nobody objected to that, and others used to recite Takbir and nobody objected to that."
Bukhari:1660 Narrated Salim:`Abdul Malik wrote to Al-Hajjaj that he should not differ from Ibn `Umar during Hajj. On the Day of 
`Arafat, when the sun declined at midday, Ibn `Umar came along with me and shouted near Al- 
Hajjaj's cotton (cloth) tent. Al-Hajjaj came Out, wrapping himself with a waist-sheet dyed with 
safflower, and said, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! What is the matter?" He said, If you want to follow the 
Sunna (the tradition of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ) then proceed (to `Arafat)." Al-Hajjaj asked, "At this 
very hour?" Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." He replied, "Please wait for me till I pour some water over my 
head (i.e. take a bath) and come out." Then Ibn `Umar dismounted and waited till Al-Hajjaj came out. 
So, he (Al-Hajjaj) walked in between me and my father (Ibn `Umar). I said to him, "If you want to 
follow the Sunna then deliver a brief sermon and hurry up for the stay at `Arafat." He started looking 
at `Abdullah (Ibn `Umar) (inquiringly), and when `Abdullah noticed that, he said that he had told the 
truth.
Bukhari:1661 Narrated Um Al-Fadl bint Al Harith:On the day of `Arafat, some people who were with me, differed about the fasting of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) some said that he was fasting while others said that he was not fasting. So I sent a bowl full 
of milk to him while he was riding his camel, and he drank that milk.
Bukhari:1662 Ibn Shihab said:Salim said, "In the year when Al-Hajjaj bin Yusuf attacked Ibn Az-Zubair, the former asked 'Abdullah (Ibn 'Umar) what to do during the stay on the Day of 'Arafa (9th of Dhul-Hajjah). I said to him, "If you want to follow the Sunna (the legal way of the Prophet (ﷺ)) you should offer the Salat just after midday on the Day of the 'Arafa. 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said, 'He (Salim) has spoken the truth.' "  They (the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ)) used to offer the Zuhr and Asr prayer together according to the Sunna, I asked Salim, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) do that ?" Salim said, "And in doing that do you (people) follow anything else except his (ﷺ) Sunna?"
Bukhari:1663 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Abdul-Malik bin Marwan wrote to Al-Hajjaj that he should follow `Abdullah bin `Umar in all the 
ceremonies of Hajj. So when it was the Day of `Arafat (9th of Dhul-Hijja), and after the sun has 
deviated or has declined from the middle of the sky, I and Ibn `Umar came and he shouted near the 
cotton (cloth) tent of Al-Hajjaj, "Where is he?" Al-Hajjaj came out. Ibn `Umar said, "Let us proceed 
(to `Arafat)." Al-Hajjaj asked, "Just now?" Ibn `Umar replied, "Yes." Al-Hajjaj said, "Wait for me till 
I pour water on me (i.e. take a bath)." So, Ibn `Umar dismounted (and waited) till Al-Hajjaj came out. 
He was walking between me and my father. I informed Al-Hajjaj, "If you want to follow the Sunna 
today, then you should shorten the sermon and then hurry up for the stay (at `Arafat)." Ibn `Umar said, 
"He (Salim) has spoken the truth."
Bukhari:1664 Narrated Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut`im:My father said, "(Before Islam) I was looking for my camel .." The same narration is told by a 
different sub-narrator. Jubair bin Mut`im said, "My camel was lost and I went out in search of it on the 
day of `Arafat, and I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) standing in `Arafat. I said to myself: By Allah he is from the 
Hums (literally: strictly religious, Quraish were called so, as they used to say, 'We are the people of 
Allah we shall not go out of the sanctuary). What has brought him here?"
Bukhari:1665 Narrated `Urwa:During the Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance, the people used to perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba naked 
except the Hums; and the Hums were Quraish and their offspring. The Hums used to give clothes to 
the men who would perform the Tawaf wearing them; and women (of the Hums) used to give clothes 
to the women who would perform the Tawaf wearing them. Those to whom the Hums did not give 
clothes would perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba naked. Most of the people used to go away (disperse) 
directly from `Arafat but they (Hums) used to depart after staying at Al-Muzdalifa. `Urwa added, "My 
father narrated that `Aisha had said, 'The following verses were revealed about the Hums: Then depart 
from the place whence all the people depart--(2.199) `Urwa added, "They (the Hums) used to stay at 
Al-Muzdalifa and used to depart from there (to Mina) and so they were sent to `Arafat (by Allah's 
order)."
Bukhari:1666 Narrated `Urwa:Usama was asked in my presence, "How was the speed of (the camel of) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while 
departing from `Arafat during the Hajjatul Wada`?" Usama replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded on with a 
modest pace, and when there was enough space he would (make his camel) go very fast."
Bukhari:1667 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:As soon as the Prophet (ﷺ) departed from `Arafat, he went towards the mountain pass, and there he 
answered the call of) the prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will you offer the 
prayer here?" He replied, "(The place of) the prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at Al-Muzdalifa)."
Bukhari:1668 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Jam' (Al-Muzdalifa). But 
he used to pass by that mountain pass where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went, and he would enter it and answer 
the call of nature and perform ablution, and would not offer any prayer till he had prayed at Jam.'
Bukhari:1669 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:I rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from `Arafat and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached the mountain pass on 
the left side which is before Al-Muzdalifa he made his camel kneel and then urinated, and then I 
poured water for his ablution. He performed light ablution and then I said to him: (Is it the time for) 
the prayer, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He replied, "The (place of) prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at Al- 
Muzdalifa)." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode till he reached Al-Muzdalifa and then he offered the prayer 
(there) . Then in the morning (10th Dhul-Hijja) Al-Faql (bin `Abbas) rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
Kuraib, (a sub-narrator) said that `Abdullah bin `Abbas narrated from Al-Fadl, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) kept on reciting Talbiya (during the journey) till he reached the Jamra." (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba)
Bukhari:1670 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:I rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from `Arafat and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached the mountain pass on 
the left side which is before Al-Muzdalifa he made his camel kneel and then urinated, and then I 
poured water for his ablution. He performed light ablution and then I said to him: (Is it the time for) 
the prayer, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He replied, "The (place of) prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at Al- 
Muzdalifa)." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode till he reached Al-Muzdalifa and then he offered the prayer 
(there) . Then in the morning (10th Dhul-Hijja) Al-Faql (bin `Abbas) rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
Kuraib, (a sub-narrator) said that `Abdullah bin `Abbas narrated from Al-Fadl, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) kept on reciting Talbiya (during the journey) till he reached the Jamra." (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba)
Bukhari:1671 Narrated Ibn `Abbas.:I proceeded along with the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of `Arafat (9th Dhul-Hijja). The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a great 
hue and cry and the beating of camels behind him. So he beckoned to the people with his lash, "O 
people! Be quiet. Hastening is not a sign of righteousness."
Bukhari:1672 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) proceeded from `Arafat and dismounted at the mountainous pass and then urinated 
and performed a light ablution. I said to him, "(Shall we offer) the prayer?" He replied, "The prayer is 
ahead of you (i.e. at Al-Muzdalifa)." When he came to Al-Muzdalifa, he performed a perfect ablution. 
Then Iqama for the prayer was pronounced and he offered the Maghrib prayer and then every person 
made his camel kneel at his place; and then Iqama for the prayer was pronounced and he offered the 
(`Isha') prayer and he did not offer any prayer in between them (i.e. Maghrib and `Isha' prayers).
Bukhari:1673 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) with a 
separate Iqama for each of them and did not offer any optional prayer in between them or after each of 
them.
Bukhari:1674 Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Al-Muzdalifa.
Bukhari:1675 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid:`Abdullah;- performed the Hajj and we reached Al-Muzdalifa at or about the time of the `Isha' prayer. 
He ordered a man to pronounce the Adhan and Iqama and then he offered the Maghrib prayer and 
offered two rak`at after it. Then he asked for his supper and took it, and then, I think, he ordered a 
man to pronounce the Adhan and Iqama (for the `Isha' prayer). (`Amr, a sub-narrator said: The 
intervening statement 'I think', was said by the sub-narrator Zuhair) (i.e. not by `Abdur-Rahman). 
Then `Abdullah offered two rak`at of `Isha' prayer. When the day dawned, `Abdullah said, "The 
Prophet never offered any prayer at this hour except this prayer at this time and at this place and on 
this day." `Abdullah added, "These two prayers are shifted from their actual times -- the Maghrib 
prayer (is offered) when the people reached Al-Muzdalifa and the Fajr (morning) prayer at the early 
dawn." `Abdullah added, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) doing that."
Bukhari:1676 Narrated Salim:`Abdullah bin `Umar used to send the weak among his family early to Mina. So they used to depart 
from Al-Mash'ar Al-Haram (that is Al-Muzdalifa) at night (when the moon had set) and invoke Allah 
as much as they could, and then they would return (to Mina) before the Imam had started from Al- 
Muzdalifa to Mina. So some of them would reach Mina at the time of the Fajr prayer and some of 
them would come later. When they reached Mina they would throw pebbles on the Jamra (Jamrat-Al- 
`Aqaba) Ibn `Umar used to say, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the permission to them (weak people) to do so."
Bukhari:1677 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had sent me from Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) at night.
Bukhari:1678 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I as among those whom the Prophet (ﷺ) sent on the night of Al-Muzdalifa early being among the weak 
members of his family.
Bukhari:1679 Narrated `Abdullah:(the slave of Asma') During the night of Jam', Asma' got down at Al-Muzdalifa and stood up for 
(offering) the prayer and offered the prayer for some time and then asked, "O my son! Has the moon 
set?" I replied in the negative and she again prayed for another period and then asked, "Has the moon 
set?" I replied, "Yes." So she said that we should set out (for Mina), and we departed and went on till 
she threw pebbles at the Jamra (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba) and then she returned to her dwelling place and 
offered the morning prayer. I asked her, "O you! I think we have come (to Mina) early in the night." 
She replied, "O my son! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave permission to the women to do so."
Bukhari:1680 Narrated `Aisha:Sauda asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to leave earlier at the night of Jam', and she was a fat and 
very slow woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave her permission.
Bukhari:1681 Narrated `Aisha:We got down at Al-Muzdalifa and Sauda asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to leave (early) before 
the rush of the people. She was a slow woman and he gave her permission, so she departed (from Al- 
Muzdalifa) before the rush of the people. We kept on staying at Al-Muzdalifa till dawn, and set out 
with the Prophet (ﷺ) but (I suffered so much that) I wished I had taken the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
as Sauda had done, and that would have been dearer to me than any other happiness.
Bukhari:1682 Narrated `Abdullah:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering any prayer not at its stated time except two; he prayed the Maghrib 
and the `Isha' together and he offered the morning prayer before its usual time.
Bukhari:1683 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid:I went out with `Abdullah , to Mecca and when we proceeded to am' he offered the two prayers (the 
Maghrib and the `Isha') together, making the Adhan and Iqama separately for each prayer. He took his 
supper in between the two prayers. He offered the Fajr prayer as soon as the day dawned. Some 
people said, "The day had dawned (at the time of the prayer)," and others said, "The day had not 
dawned." `Abdullah then said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'These two prayers have been shifted from their 
stated times at this place only (at Al-Muzdalifa); first: The Maghrib and the `Isha'. So the people 
should not arrive at Al-Muzdalifa till the time of the `Isha' prayer has become due. The second prayer 
is the morning prayer which is offered at this hour.' " Then `Abdullah stayed there till it became a bit 
brighter. He then said, "If the chief of the believers hastened onwards to Mina just now, then he had 
indeed followed the Sunna." I do not know which proceeded the other, his (`Abdullah's) statement or 
the departure of `Uthman . `Abdullah was reciting Talbiya till he threw pebbles at the Jamrat-Al- 
`Aqaba on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering) (that is the 10th of Dhul-Hijja).
Bukhari:1684 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:I saw `Umar, offering the Fajr (morning) prayer at Jam'; then he got up and said, "The pagans did not 
use to depart (from Jam') till the sun had risen, and they used to say, 'Let the sun shine on Thabir (a 
mountain).' But the Prophet (ﷺ) contradicted them and departed from Jam' before sunrise."
Bukhari:1685 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) made Al-Fadl ride behind him, and Al-Fadl informed that he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) kept on 
reciting Talbiya till he did the Rami of the Jamra. (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba.)
Bukhari:1686 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah:Ibn `Abbas said, "Usama bin Zaid rode behind the Prophet (ﷺ) from `Arafat to Al-Muzdalifa; and then 
from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina, Al-Fadl rode behind him." He added, "Both of them (Usama and Al-Fadl) 
said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) was constantly reciting Talbiya till he did Rami of the Jamarat-Al-`Aqaba."
Bukhari:1687 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah:Ibn `Abbas said, "Usama bin Zaid rode behind the Prophet (ﷺ) from `Arafat to Al-Muzdalifa; and then 
from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina, Al-Fadl rode behind him." He added, "Both of them (Usama and Al-Fadl) 
said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) was constantly reciting Talbiya till he did Rami of the Jamarat-Al-`Aqaba."
Bukhari:1688 Narrated Abu Jamra:I asked Ibn `Abbas about Hajj-at-Tamattu`. He ordered me to perform it. I asked him about the Hadi 
(sacrifice). He said, "You have to slaughter a camel, a cow or a sheep, or you may share the Hadi with 
the others." It seemed that some people disliked it (Hajj-at-Tamattu`). I slept and dreamt as if a person 
was announcing: "Hajj Mabrur and accepted Mut'ah (Hajj-at-Tamattu`)" I went to Ibn `Abbas and 
narrated it to him. He said, "Allah is Greater. (That was) the tradition of Abu Al-Qasim (i.e. Prophet). 
Narrated Shu`ba that the call in the dream was. "An accepted `Umra and Hajj-Mabrur. "
Bukhari:1689 Narrated Abu Huraira':Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) saw a man driving his Badana (sacrificial camel). He said, "Ride on it." The 
man said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it." He (the man) said, "It is a Badana." The 
Prophet said, "Ride on it." And on the second or the third time he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) added, "Woe to you."
Bukhari:1690 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana. He said, "Ride on it." The man replied, "It is a Badana." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (again), "Ride on it." He (the man) said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, 
"Ride on it."
Bukhari:1691 Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the last Hajj (Hajj-al-Wada`) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he performed `Umra and Hajj. He drove a 
Hadi along with him from Dhul-Hulaifa. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started by assuming Ihram for `Umra and 
Hajj. And the people, too, performed the `Umra and Hajj along with the Prophet. Some of them 
brought the Hadi and drove it along with them, while the others did not. So, when the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived 
at Mecca. he said to the people, "Whoever among you has driven the Hadi, should not finish his Ihram 
till he completes his Hajj. And whoever among you has not (driven) the Hadi with him, should 
perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba and the Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, then cut short his hair and finish 
his Ihram, and should later assume Ihram for Hajj; but he must offer a Hadi (sacrifice); and if anyone 
cannot afford a Hadi, he should fast for three days during the Hajj and seven days when he returns 
home. The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba on his arrival (at Mecca); he touched the (Black 
Stone) corner first of all and then did Ramal (fast walking with moving of the shoulders) during the 
first three rounds round the Ka`ba, and during the last four rounds he walked. After finishing Tawaf of 
the Ka`ba, he offered a two rak`at prayer at Maqam Ibrahim, and after finishing the prayer he went to 
Safa and Marwa and performed seven rounds of Tawaf between them and did not do any deed 
forbidden because of Ihram, till he finished all the ceremonies of his Hajj and sacrificed his Hadi on 
the day of Nahr (10th day of Dhul-Hijja). He then hastened onwards (to Mecca) and performed Tawaf 
of the Ka`ba and then everything that was forbidden because of Ihram became permissible. Those who 
took and drove the Hadi with them did the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did.
Bukhari:1692 Narrated 'Urwa:" 'Aishah informed me about the Hajj and 'Umra (together) of the Prophet (ﷺ) and so did the people who were with him (during the Hajj and 'Umra) and narration similar to the narration of the Ibn 'Umar (previous hadith)
Bukhari:1693 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah (bin `Abdullah) bin `Umar said to his father, "Stay here, for I am afraid that it (affliction 
between Ibn Zubair and Al-Hajjaj) might prevent you from reaching the Ka`ba." Ibn `Umar said, "(In 
this case) I would do the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did, and Allah has said, 'Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), 
you have a good example (to follow).' So, I make you, people, witness that I have made `Umra 
compulsory for me." So he assumed lhram for `Umra. Then he went out and when he reached Al- 
Baida', he assumed Ihram for Hajj and `Umra (together) and said, "The conditions (requisites) of Hajj 
and `Umra are the same." He, then brought a Hadi from Qudaid. Then he arrived (at Mecca) and 
performed Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) once for both Hajj and `Umra and did not finish the 
lhram till he had finished both Hajj and `Umra.
Bukhari:1694 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan:The Prophet (ﷺ) set out from Medina with over one thousand of his companions (at the time of the Treaty 
of Hudaibiya) and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, the Prophet (ﷺ) garlanded his Hadi and marked it and 
assumed Ihram for `Umra.
Bukhari:1695 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan:The Prophet (ﷺ) set out from Medina with over one thousand of his companions (at the time of the Treaty 
of Hudaibiya) and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, the Prophet (ﷺ) garlanded his Hadi and marked it and 
assumed Ihram for `Umra.
Bukhari:1696 Narrated `Aisha:I twisted with my own hands the garlands for the Budn of the Prophet (ﷺ) who garlanded and marked 
them, and then made them proceed to Mecca; Yet no permissible thing was regarded as illegal for him 
then.
Bukhari:1697 Narrated Hafsa:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is wrong with the people, they have finished their Ihram but you have 
not?" He said, "I matted my hair and I have garlanded my Hadi, so I will not finish my Ihram till I 
finished my Hajj ."
Bukhari:1698 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to send the Hadi from Medina and I used to twist the garlands for his Hadi and 
he did not keep away from any of these things which a Muhrim keeps away from.
Bukhari:1699 Narrated `Aisha:I twisted the garlands for the Hadis of the Prophet (ﷺ) and then he marked and garlanded them (or I 
garlanded them) and then made them proceed to the Ka`ba but he remained in Medina and no 
permissible thing was regarded as illegal for him then .
Bukhari:1700 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Bakr bin `Amr bin Hazm:That `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman had told him, "Zaid bin Abu Sufyan wrote to `Aisha that `Abdullah 
bin `Abbas had stated, 'Whoever sends his Hadi (to the Ka`ba), all the things which are illegal for a 
(pilgrim) become illegal for that person till he slaughters it (i.e. till the 10th of Dhul-Hijja).' " `Amra 
added, `Aisha said, 'It is not like what Ibn `Abbas had said: I twisted the garlands of the Hadis of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with my own hands. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put them round their necks with his own 
hands, sending them with my father; Yet nothing permitted by Allah was considered illegal for Allah's 
Apostle till he slaughtered the Hadis.' "
Bukhari:1701 Narrated `Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sent sheep as Hadi.
Bukhari:1702 Narrated `Aisha:I used to make the garlands for (the Hadis of) the Prophet (ﷺ) and he would garland the sheep (with them) 
and would stay with his family as a non-Muhrim.
Bukhari:1703 Narrated Aisha:I used to twist the garlands for the sheep of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he would send them (to the Ka`ba), and 
stay as a non-Muhrim.
Bukhari:1704 Narrated `Aisha:I twisted (the garlands) for the Hadis of the Prophet (ﷺ) before he assumed Ihram.
Bukhari:1705 Narrated `Aisha:I twisted the garlands of the Hadis from the wool which was with me.
Bukhari:1706 Narrated `Ikrima:Abu Huraira said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (sacrificial camel). The Prophet (p.b.u.h) 
said (to him), 'Ride on it.' He replied, 'It is a Badana.' The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, 'Ride on it!' Abu Huraira 
added, 'Then I saw that man riding it, showing obedience to the Prophet (p.b.u.h), and a shoe was 
(hanging) from its neck.' "Narrated Abu Huraira:From the Prophet: (as above).
Bukhari:1707 Narrated `Ali:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me to give in charity the skin and the coverings of the Budn which I had 
slaughtered.
Bukhari:1708 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar intended to perform Hajj in the year of the Hajj of Al-Harawriya during the rule of Ibn Az- 
Zubair. Some people said to him, "It is very likely that there will be a fight among the people, and we 
are afraid that they might prevent you (from performing Hajj)." He replied, "Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
there is a good example for you (to follow). In this case I would do the same as he had done. I make 
you witness that I have intended to perform `Umra." When he reached Al-Baida', he said, "The 
conditions for both Hajj and `Umra are the same. I make you witness that I have intended to perform 
Hajj along with `Umra." After that he took a garlanded Hadi (to Mecca) which he bought (on the 
way). When he reached (Mecca), he performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and of Safa (and Marwa) and did 
not do more than that. He did not make legal for himself the things which were illegal for a Muhrim 
till it was the Day of Nahr (sacrifice), when he had his head shaved and slaughtered (the sacrifice) and 
considered sufficient his first Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa), as a (Sa`i) for his Hajj and `Umra 
both. He then said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do like that."
Bukhari:1709 Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman:I heard `Aisha saying, "Five days before the end of Dhul-Qa'da we set out from Medina in the 
company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the intention of performing Hajj only. When we approached Mecca, 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered those who had no Hadi with them to finish their lhram after performing Tawaf 
of the Ka`ba and (Sa`i) and between Safa and Marwa." `Aisha added, "On the day of Nahr 
(slaughtering of sacrifice) beef was brought to us. I asked, 'What is this?' The reply was, 'Allah's 
Apostle (p.b.u.h) has slaughtered (sacrifices) on behalf of his wives.' "
Bukhari:1710 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah (bin `Umar), used to slaughter (his sacrifice) at the Manhar. ('Ubaidullah, a sub-narrator 
said, "The Manhar of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).")
Bukhari:1711 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to send his Hadi from Jam' (to Mina) in the last third of the night with the pilgrims 
amongst whom there were free men and slaves, till it was taken into the Manhar (slaughtering place) 
of the Prophet (ﷺ) .
Bukhari:1712 Narrated Sahl bin Bakkar:The narration of Anas abridged, saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered seven Budn (camels) while 
standing, with his own hands. On the day of `Id-ul-Adha he slaughtered (sacrificed) two horned rams, 
black and white in color.
Bukhari:1713 Narrated Ziyad bin Jubair:I saw Ibn `Umar passing by a man who had made his Badana sit to slaughter it. Ibn `Umar said, 
"Slaughter it while it is standing with one leg tied up as is the tradition of Muhammad."
Bukhari:1714 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer at Medina; and two rak`at of `Asr prayer at Dhil- 
Hulaifa and spent the night there and when (the day) dawned, he mounted his Mount and started 
saying, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and Glorified be Allah." When he reached Al- 
Baida' he recited Talbiya for both Hajj and `Umra. And when he arrived at Mecca, he ordered them 
(his companions) to finish their Ihram. The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered seven Budn (camel) with his own 
hands while the camels were standing He also sacrificed two horned rams (black and white in color) at 
Medina.
Bukhari:1715 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer at Medina and two rak`at of `Asr prayer at 
Dhul-Hulaifa. Narrated Aiyub: "A man said: Anas said, "Then he (the Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night there 
till dawn and then he offered the morning (Fajr) prayer, and mounted his Mount and when it arrived at 
Al-Baida' he assumed Ihram for both `Umra and Hajj."
Bukhari:1716 Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me to supervise the (slaughtering of) Budn (Hadi camels) and ordered me to 
distribute their meat, and then he ordered me to distribute their covering sheets and skins. 'All added, 
"The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to supervise the slaughtering (of the Budn) and not to give anything (of their 
bodies) to the butcher as wages for slaughtering."
Bukhari:1717 Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to supervise the (slaughtering) of Budn (Hadi camel) and to distribute their 
meat, skins and covering sheets in charity and not to give anything (of their bodies) to the butcher as 
wages for slaughtering.
Bukhari:1718 Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered one hundred Budn as Hadi and ordered me to distribute their meat (in charity) 
and I did so. Then he ordered me to distribute their covering sheets in charity and I did so. Then he 
ordered me to distribute their skins in charity and I did so.
Bukhari:1719 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ata' said, "I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'We never ate the meat of the Budn for more than three 
days of Mina. Later, the Prophet (ﷺ) gave us permission by saying: 'Eat and take (meat) with you. So we 
ate (some) and took (some) with us.' " I asked `Ata', "Did Jabir say (that they went on eating the meat) 
till they reached Medina?" `Ata' replied, "No."
Bukhari:1720 Narrated `Amra:I heard `Aisha saying, "We set out (from Medina) along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) five days before the end 
of Dhul-Qa'da with the intention of performing Hajj only. When we approached Mecca, Allah's 
Apostle ordered those who had no Hadi along with them to finish the lhram after performing Tawaf of 
the Ka`ba, (Safa and Marwa). `Aisha added, "Beef was brought to us on the Day of Nahr and I said, 
'What is this?' Somebody said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) has slaughtered (cows) on behalf of his wives.' "
Bukhari:1721 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a person who had his head shaved before slaughtering (his Hadi) (or 
other similar ceremonies of Hajj). He replied, "There is no harm, there is no harm."
Bukhari:1722 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "I performed the Tawaf-al-Ifada before the Rami (throwing pebbles at the 
Jamra)." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm." The man said, "I had my head shaved before 
slaughtering." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm." He said, "I have slaughtered the Hadi before 
the Rami." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm."
Bukhari:1723 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked by a man who said, "I have done the Rami in the evening." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied, "There is no harm in it." Another man asked, "I had my head shaved before the slaughtering." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm in it."
Bukhari:1724 Narrated Abu Musa:I came upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he was at Al-Batha. He asked me, "Have you intended to perform 
the Hajj?" I replied in the affirmative. He asked, "For what have you assumed lhram?" I replied," I 
have assumed Ihram with the same intention as that of the Prophet (ﷺ) ." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have 
done well! Go and perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa." Then I went to one 
of the women of Bani Qais and she took out lice from my head. Later, I assumed the Ihram for Hajj. 
So, I used to give this verdict to the people till the caliphate of `Umar. When I told him about it, he 
said, "If we take (follow) the Holy Book, then it orders us to complete Hajj and `Umra (Hajj-at- 
Tamattu`) and if we follow the tradition of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not finish his 
lhram till the Hadi had reached its destination (had been slaughtered). (i.e. Hajj-al-Qiran). (See Hadith 
No. 630)
Bukhari:1725 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Hafsa said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is wrong with the people; they finished their Ihram after 
performing `Umra, but you have not finished it after your `Umra?" He replied, "I matted my hair and 
have garlanded my Hadi. So, I cannot finish my Ihram till I slaughter (my Hadi). "
Bukhari:1726 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) (got) his head shaved after performing his Hajj.
Bukhari:1727 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Be merciful to those who have their head shaved." The people said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! And (invoke Allah for) those who get their hair cut short." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O 
Allah! Be merciful to those who have their head shaved." The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! And 
those who get their hair cut short." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (the third time), "And to those who get their hair 
cut short." Nafi` said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said once or twice, "O Allah! Be merciful to those who get 
their head shaved," and on the fourth time he added, "And to those who have their hair cut short."
Bukhari:1728 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Forgive those who get their heads shaved." The people asked. "Also 
those who get their hair cut short?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Forgive those who have their heads 
shaved." The people said, "Also those who get their hair cut short?" The Prophet (invoke Allah for 
those who have their heads shaved and) at the third time said, "also (forgive) those who get their hair 
cut short."
Bukhari:1729 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions got their heads shaved and some others got their hair cut 
short.
Bukhari:1730 Narrated Muawiya:I cut short the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with a long blade.
Bukhari:1731 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca, he ordered his Companions to perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and 
between Safa and Marwa, to finish their Ihram and get their hair shaved off or cut short.
Bukhari:1732 Narrated Nafi' that Ibn 'Umar (ra) performed only one Tawaf. He would take an afternoon nap and then return to Mina. That was on the day of Nahr (slaughtering).
Bukhari:1733 Narrated `Aisha:We performed Hajj with the Prophet (ﷺ) and performed Tawaf-al-ifada on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering). 
Safiya got her menses and the Prophets desired from her what a husband desires from his wife. I said 
to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! She is having her menses." He said, "Is she going to detain us?" We 
informed him that she had performed Tawaf-al-Ifada on the Day of Nahr. He said, "(Then you can) 
depart."
Bukhari:1734 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the slaughtering, shaving (of the head), and the doing of Rami before or 
after the due times. He said, "There is no harm in that."
Bukhari:1735 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked (as regards the ceremonies of Hajj) at Mina on the Day of Nahr and he replied 
that there was no harm. Then a man said to him, "I got my head shaved before slaughtering." He 
replied, "Slaughter (now) and there is no harm in it." (Another) man said, "I did the Rami (of the 
Jimar) after midday." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There was no harm in it."
Bukhari:1736 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stopped (for a while near the Jimar at Mina) during his last Hajj and the people started 
asking him questions. A man said, "Ignorantly I got my head shaved before slaughtering." The 
Prophet replied, "Slaughter (now) and there is no harm in it." Another man said, "Unknowingly I 
slaughtered the Hadi before doing the Rami." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do Rami now and there is no harm 
in it." So, on that day, when the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about anything (about the ceremonies of Hajj) 
done before or after (its stated time) his reply was, "Do it (now) and there is no harm."
Bukhari:1737 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:I witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was delivering the sermon on the Day of Nahr. A man stood up and 
said, "I thought that such and such was to be done before such and such. I got my hair shaved before 
slaughtering." (Another said), "I slaughtered the Hadi before doing the Rami." So, the people asked 
about many similar things. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do it (now) and there is no harm in all these cases." 
Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about anything on that day, he replied, "Do it (now) and there is no 
harm in it."
Bukhari:1738 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stopped while on his she-camel (the sub-narrator then narrated the Hadith as above, 
i.e. 793).
Bukhari:1739 Narrated `Ikrima:Ibn `Abbas said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered a sermon on the Day of Nahr, and said, 'O people! (Tell 
me) what is the day today?' The people replied, 'It is the forbidden (sacred) day.' He asked again, 
'What town is this?' They replied, 'It is the forbidden (Sacred) town.' He asked, 'Which month is this?' 
They replied, 'It is the forbidden (Sacred) month.' He said, 'No doubt! Your blood, your properties, 
and your honor are sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours, in this (sacred) town 
(Mecca) of yours, in this month of yours.' The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated his statement again and again. After 
that he raised his head and said, 'O Allah! Haven't conveyed (Your Message) to them'. Haven't I 
conveyed Your Message to them?' " Ibn `Abbas added, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, the 
following was his will (Prophet's will) to his followers:--It is incumbent upon those who are present to 
convey this information to those who are absent Beware don't renegade (as) disbelievers (turn into 
infidels) after me, Striking the necks (cutting the throats) of one another.' "
Bukhari:1740 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon at `Arafat.
Bukhari:1741 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered to us a sermon on the Day of Nahr. He said, "Do you know what is the day 
today?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He remained silent till we thought that he 
might give that day another name. He said, "Isn't it the Day of Nahr?" We said, "It is." He further 
asked, "Which month is this?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He remained silent till 
we thought that he might give it another name. He then said, "Isn't it the month of Dhul-Hijja?" We 
replied: "Yes! It is." He further asked, "What town is this?" We replied, "Allah and His Apostle know 
it better." He remained silent till we thought that he might give it another name. He then said, "Isn't it 
the forbidden (Sacred) town (of Mecca)?" We said, "Yes. It is." He said, "No doubt, your blood and 
your properties are sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours, in this month of yours, 
in this town of yours, till the day you meet your Lord. No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's message 
to you? They said, "Yes." He said, "O Allah! Be witness. So it is incumbent upon those who are 
present to convey it (this information) to those who are absent because the informed one might 
comprehend it (what I have said) better than the present audience, who will convey it to him. Beware! 
Do not renegade (as) disbelievers after me by striking the necks (cutting the throats) of one another."
Bukhari:1742 Narrated Ibn `Umar:At Mina, the Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Do you know what is the day today?" The people replied, "Allah 
and His Apostle know it better." He said, "It is the forbidden (sacred) day. And do you know what 
town is this?" They replied, "Allah and His Apostle know it better." He said, "This is the forbidden 
(Sacred) town (Mecca). And do you know which month is this?" The people replied, "Allah and His 
Apostle know it better." He said, "This is the forbidden (sacred) month." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "No 
doubt, Allah made your blood, your properties, and your honor sacred to one another like the sanctity 
of this day of yours in this month of yours in this town of yours." Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the Day of 
Nahr (10th of Dhul-Hijja), the Prophet (ﷺ) stood in between the Jamrat during his Hajj which he 
performed (as in the previous Hadith) and said, "This is the greatest Day (i.e. 10th of Dhul-Hijjah)." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) started saying repeatedly, "O Allah! Be Witness (I have conveyed Your Message)." He 
then bade the people farewell. The people said, "This is Hajjat-al-Wada`)."
Bukhari:1743 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) permitted the people who provided the pilgrims with water to stay at Mecca during the 
nights of Mina.
Bukhari:1744 Narrated Ibn `Umar:That the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed people who provided the pilgrims with water to stay at Mecca during the 
nights of Mina.
Bukhari:1745 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Al-Abbas asked the permission from the Prophet (ﷺ) to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina in order 
to provide water to the people, so the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed him.
Bukhari:1746 Narrated Wabra:I asked Ibn `Umar, "When should I do the Rami of the Jimar?" He replied, "When your leader does 
that." I asked him again the same question. He replied, "We used to wait till the sun declined and then 
we would do the Rami (i.e. on the 11th and 12th of Dhul-Hijja)."
Bukhari:1747 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid:`Abdullah, did the Rami from the middle of the valley. So, I said, "O, Abu `Abdur-Rahman! Some 
people do the Rami (of the Jamra) from above it (i.e. from the top of the valley)." He said, "By Him 
except whom none has the right to be worshipped, this is the place from where the one on whom 
Surat-al-Baqara was revealed (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) did the Rami."
Bukhari:1748 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid:When `Abdullah, reached the big Jamra (i.e. Jamrat-ul-Aqaba) he kept the Ka`ba on the left side and 
Mina on his right side and threw seven pebbles (at the Jamra) and said, "The one on whom Surat-al- 
Baqara was revealed (i.e. the Prophet) had done the Rami similarly."
Bukhari:1749 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid:I performed Hajj with Ibn Mas`ud , and saw him doing Rami of the big Jamra (Jamrat-ul-Aqaba) with 
seven small pebbles, keeping the Ka`ba on his left side and Mina on his right. He then said, "This is 
the place where the one on whom Surat-al-Baqara was revealed (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ) stood."
Bukhari:1750 Narrated Al-A`mash:I heard Al-Hajjaj saying on the pulpit, "The Sura in which Al-Baqara (the cow) is mentioned and the 
Sura in which the family of `Imran is mentioned and the Sura in which the women (An-Nisa) is 
mentioned." I mentioned this to Ibrahim, and he said, `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid told me, 'I was with 
Ibn Mas`ud, when he did the Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Aqaba. He went down the middle of the valley, 
and when he came near the tree (which was near the Jamra) he stood opposite to it and threw seven 
small pebbles and said: 'Allahu-Akbar' on throwing every pebble.' Then he said, 'By Him, except 
Whom none has the right to be worshipped, here (at this place) stood the one on whom Surat-al-Baqra 
was revealed (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)).' "
Bukhari:1751 Narrated Salim:Ibn `Umar used to do Rami of the Jamrat-ud-Dunya (the Jamra near to the Khaif mosque) with seven 
small stones and used to recite Takbir on throwing every pebble. He then would go ahead till he 
reached the level ground where he would stand facing the Qibla for a long time to invoke (Allah) 
while raising his hands (while invoking). Then he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Wusta (middle 
Jamra) and then he would go to the left towards the middle ground, where he would stand facing the 
Qibla. He would remain standing there for a long period to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands, and 
would stand there for a long period. Then he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Aqaba from the middle 
of the valley, but he would not stay by it, and then he would leave and say, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) doing 
like this."
Bukhari:1752 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:`Abdullah bin `Umar used to do Rami of the Jamrat-ud-Dunya with seven small pebbles and used to 
recite Takbir on throwing each stone. He, then, would proceed further till he reached the level ground, 
where he would stay for a long time, facing the Qibla to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands. Then 
he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Wusta similarly and would go to the left towards the level ground, 
where he would stand for a long time facing the Qibla to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands. Then 
he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Aqaba from the middle of the valley, but he would not stay by it. 
Ibn `Umar used to say, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) doing like that."
Bukhari:1753 Narrated Az-Zuhri:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stoned the Jamra near Mina Mosque, he would do Ramy of it with seven small pebbles and say Takbir on throwing each pebble. Then he would go ahead and stand facing the Qiblah with his hands raised, and invoke (Allah) and he sued to stand for a long period. Then he would come to the second Jamra (Al-Wusta) and stone it will seven small stones, reciting Takbir on throwing each stone. Then he would stand facing the Qiblah with raised hands to invoke (Allah). Then he would come to the Jamra near the 'Aqaba (Jamrat-ul-'Aqaba) and do Ramy of it with seven small pebbles, reciting Takbir on throwing each stone. he then would leave and not stay by it.Narrated Az-Zuhri: I heard Salim bin 'Abdullah saying the same that his father said on the authority of the Prophet (ﷺ). And Ibn 'Umar used to do the same.
Bukhari:1754 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim:I heard my father who was the best man of his age, saying, "I heard `Aisha saying, 'I perfumed Allah's 
Apostle with my own hands before finishing his Ihram while yet he has not performed Tawaf-al- 
Ifada.' She spread her hands (while saying so.)"
Bukhari:1755 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The people were ordered to perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba (Tawaf-al-Wada`) as the lastly thing, 
before leaving (Mecca), except the menstruating women who were excused.
Bukhari:1756 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Zuhr, `Asr, Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers and slept for a while at a place 
called Al-Muhassab and then rode to the Ka`ba and performed Tawaf round it .
Bukhari:1757 Narrated `Aisha:Safiya bint Huyay, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) got her menses, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed of that. 
He said, "Would she delay us?" The people said, "She has already performed Tawaf-al-Ifada." He 
said, "Therefore she will not (delay us)."
Bukhari:1758 Narrated `Ikrima:The people of Medina asked Ibn `Abbas about a woman who got her menses after performing Tawafal- 
Ifada. He said, "She could depart (from Mecca)." They said, "We will not act on your verdict and 
ignore the verdict of Zaid." Ibn `Abbas said, "When you reach Medina, inquire about it." So, when 
they reached Medina they asked (about that). One of those whom they asked was Um Sulaim. She told 
them the narration of Safiya (812).
Bukhari:1759 Narrated `Ikrima:The people of Medina asked Ibn `Abbas about a woman who got her menses after performing Tawafal- 
Ifada. He said, "She could depart (from Mecca)." They said, "We will not act on your verdict and 
ignore the verdict of Zaid." Ibn `Abbas said, "When you reach Medina, inquire about it." So, when 
they reached Medina they asked (about that). One of those whom they asked was Um Sulaim. She told 
them the narration of Safiya (812).
Bukhari:1760 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A menstruating woman was allowed to leave Mecca if she had done Tawaf-al-Ifada. Tawus (a subnarrator) 
said from his father, "I heard Ibn `Umar saying that she would not depart. Then later I heard 
him saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) had allowed them (menstruating women) to depart."
Bukhari:1761 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A menstruating woman was allowed to leave Mecca if she had done Tawaf-al-Ifada. Tawus (a subnarrator) 
said from his father, "I heard Ibn `Umar saying that she would not depart. Then later I heard 
him saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) had allowed them (menstruating women) to depart."
Bukhari:1762 Narrated `Aisha:We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) with the intention of performing Hajj only. The Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca 
and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa and did not finish the Ihram, because 
he had the Hadi with him. His companions and his wives performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba and between 
Safa and Marwa), and those who had no Hadi with them finished their Ihram. I got the menses and 
performed all the ceremonies of Hajj. So, when the Night of Hasba (night of departure) came, I said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! All your companions are returning with Hajj and `Umra except me." He asked 
me, "Didn't you perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba (Umra) when you reached Mecca?" I said, "No." He said, 
"Go to Tan`im with your brother `Abdur-Rahman, and assume Ihram for `Umra and I will wait for 
you at such and such a place." So I went with `Abdur-Rahman to Tan`im and assumed Ihram for 
`Umra. Then Safiya bint Huyay got menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " 'Aqra Halqa! You will detain us! 
Didn't you perform Tawaf-al-Ifada on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" She said, "Yes, I did." He 
said, "Then there is no harm, depart." So I met the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was ascending the heights 
towards Mecca and I was descending, or vice-versa.
Bukhari:1763 Narrated `Abdul-Aziz bin Rufai:I asked Anas bin Malik, "Tell me something you have observed about the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning where 
he offered the Zuhr prayer on the Day of Tarwiya (8th Dhul-Hijja)." Anas replied, "He offered it at 
Mina." I said, "Where did he offer the `Asr prayer on the Day of Nafr (day of departure from Mina)?" 
He replied, "At Al-Abtah," and added, "You should do as your leaders do."
Bukhari:1764 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Zuhr, `Asr, Maghrib and `Isha' prayers and slept for a while at a place called 
Al-Mahassab and then he rode towards the Ka`ba and performed Tawaf (al-Wada`).
Bukhari:1765 Narrated `Aisha:It (i.e. Al-Abtah) was a place where the Prophet (ﷺ) used to camp so that it might be easier for him to 
depart.
Bukhari:1766 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Staying at Al-Mahassab is not one of the ceremonies (of Hajj), but Al-Mahassab is a place where 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) camped (during his Hajjat-al-Wida).
Bukhari:1767 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to spend the night at Dhi-Tuwa in between the two Thaniyas and then he would enter 
Mecca through the Thaniya which is at the higher region of Mecca, and whenever he came to Mecca 
for Hajj or `Umra, he never made his she camel kneel down except near the gate of the Masjid (Sacred 
Mosque) and then he would enter (it) and go to the Black (stone) Corner and start from there 
circumambulating the Ka`ba seven times: hastening in the first three rounds (Ramal) and walking in 
the last four. On finishing, he would offer two rak`at prayer and set out to perform Tawaf between 
Safa and Marwa before returning to his dwelling place. On returning (to Medina) from Hajj or `Umra, 
he used to make his camel kneel down at Al-Batha which is at Dhul-Hulaifa, the place where the 
Prophet used to make his camel kneel down.
Bukhari:1768 Narrated Khalid bin Al-Harith:'Ubaidullah was asked about Al Mahassab. 'Ubaidullah narrated: Nafi` said, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s, `Umar 
and Ibn `Umar camped there." Nafi` added, "Ibn `Umar used to offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers at it 
(i.e. Al-Mahassab)." I think he mentioned the Maghrib prayer also. I said, "I don't doubt about `Isha' 
(i.e. he used to offer it there also), and he used to sleep there for a while. He used to say, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) 
used to do the same.' "
Bukhari:1769 Narrated Nafi':Whenver Ibn 'Umar (ra) approached (Makkah) he used to pass the night at Dhi-Tuwa till dawn, and then he would enter Makkah. On his return, he used to pass by Dhi-Tuwa and pass the night there till dawn, and he used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same.
Bukhari:1770 Narrated Ibn ' `Abbas:Dhul-Majaz and `Ukaz were the markets of the people during the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance. 
When the people embraced Islam, they disliked to do bargaining there till the following Holy Verses 
were revealed:-- There is no harm for you If you seek of the bounty Of your Lord (during Hajj by 
trading, etc.) (2.198)
Bukhari:1771 Narrated `Aisha:Safiya got her menses on the night of Nafr (departure from Hajj), and she said, "I see that I will detain you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Aqra Halqa! Did she perform the Tawaf on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" Somebody replied in the affirmative. He said, "Then depart." (Different narrators mentioned that) `Aisha said, "We set out with Allah''s Apostle (from Medina) with the intention of performing Hajj only. When we reached Mecca, he ordered us to finish the Ihram. When it was the night of Nafr (departure), Safiya bint Huyay got her menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Halqa Aqra! I think that she will detain you," and added, "Did you perform the Tawaf (Al-Ifada) on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" She replied, "Yes." He said, "Then depart." I said, "O Allah''s Apostle! I have not (done the Umra)." He replied, "Perform `Umra from Tan`im." My brother went with me and we came across the Prophet (ﷺ) in the last part of the night. He said, "Wait at such and such a place."
Bukhari:1772 Narrated `Aisha:Safiya got her menses on the night of Nafr (departure from Hajj), and she said, "I see that I will detain you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Aqra Halqa! Did she perform the Tawaf on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" Somebody replied in the affirmative. He said, "Then depart." (Different narrators mentioned that) `Aisha said, "We set out with Allah''s Apostle (from Medina) with the intention of performing Hajj only. When we reached Mecca, he ordered us to finish the Ihram. When it was the night of Nafr (departure), Safiya bint Huyay got her menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Halqa Aqra! I think that she will detain you," and added, "Did you perform the Tawaf (Al-Ifada) on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" She replied, "Yes." He said, "Then depart." I said, "O Allah''s Apostle! I have not (done the Umra)." He replied, "Perform `Umra from Tan`im." My brother went with me and we came across the Prophet (ﷺ) in the last part of the night. He said, "Wait at such and such a place."
Bukhari:1773 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(The performance of) `Umra is an expiation for the sins committed (between it 
and the previous one). And the reward of Hajj Mabrur (the one accepted by Allah) is nothing except 
Paradise."
Bukhari:1774 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ikrima bin Khalid asked Ibn `Umar about performing `Umra before Hajj. Ibn `Umar replied, "There is no harm in it." `Ikrima said, "Ibn `Umar also said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) had performed `Umra before performing Hajj.'"Narrated `Ikrima bin Khalid:"I asked Ibn `Umar the same (as above)."
Bukhari:1775 Narrated Mujahid:Urwa bin Az-Zubair and I entered the Mosque (of the Prophet) and saw `Abdullah bin `Umar sitting near the dwelling place of Aisha and some people were offering the Duha prayer. We asked him about their prayer and he replied that it was a heresy. He (Urwa) then asked him how many times the Prophet (ﷺ) had performed `Umra. He replied, 'Four times; one of them was in the month of Rajab." We disliked 
to contradict him. Then we heard `Aisha, the Mother of faithful believers cleaning her teeth with Siwak in the dwelling place. 'Urwa said, "O Mother! O Mother of the believers! Don't you hear what Abu `Abdur Rahman is saying?" She said, "What does he say?" 'Urwa said, "He says that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed four `Umra and one of them was in the month of Rajab." `Aisha said, "May Allah be merciful to Abu `Abdur Rahman! The Prophet (ﷺ) did not perform any `Umra except that he was with him, and he never performed any `Umra in Rajab."
Bukhari:1776 Narrated Mujahid:Urwa bin Az-Zubair and I entered the Mosque (of the Prophet) and saw `Abdullah bin `Umar sitting near the dwelling place of Aisha and some people were offering the Duha prayer. We asked him about their prayer and he replied that it was a heresy. He (Urwa) then asked him how many times the Prophet (ﷺ) had performed `Umra. He replied, 'Four times; one of them was in the month of Rajab." We disliked 
to contradict him. Then we heard `Aisha, the Mother of faithful believers cleaning her teeth with Siwak in the dwelling place. 'Urwa said, "O Mother! O Mother of the believers! Don't you hear what Abu `Abdur Rahman is saying?" She said, "What does he say?" 'Urwa said, "He says that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed four `Umra and one of them was in the month of Rajab." `Aisha said, "May Allah be merciful to Abu `Abdur Rahman! The Prophet (ﷺ) did not perform any `Umra except that he was with him, and he never performed any `Umra in Rajab."
Bukhari:1777 Narrated 'Urwa bin Az-Zubair:I asked `Aisha (whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had performed `Umra in Rajab). She replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
never performed any `Umra in Rajab."
Bukhari:1778 Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas how many times the Prophet (ﷺ) had performed `Umra. He replied, "Four times. 1. `Umra of 
Hudaibiya in Dhi-l-Qa'da when the pagans hindered him; 2. `Umra in the following year in Dhi-l- 
Qa'da after the peace treaty with them (the pagans); 3. `Umra from Al-Ja'rana where he distributed the 
war booty." I think he meant the booty (of the battle) of Hunain. I asked, "How many times did he 
perform Hajj?" He (Anas) replied, "Once. "
Bukhari:1779 Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas (about the Prophet's `Umra) and he replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) performed `Umra when the 
pagans made him return, and Umra of al-Hudaibiya (the next year), and another `Umra in Dhi-l-Qa'da, 
and another `Umra in combination with his Hajj."
Bukhari:1780 Narrated Hammam:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed four `Umra (three) in Dhi-l-Qa'da except the (one) `Umra which he performed 
with his Hajj: His `Umra from Al-hudaibiya, and the one of the following year, and the one from Al- 
Jr'rana where he distributed the booty (of the battle) of Hunain, and another `Umra with his Hajj.
Bukhari:1781 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:I asked Masruq, `Ata' and Mujahid (about the `Umra of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)). They said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
had performed `Umra in Dhi-l-Qa'da before he performed Hajj." I heard Al-Bara' bin `Azib saying, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had performed `Umra in Dhi-l-Qa'da twice before he performed Hajj."
Bukhari:1782 Narrated Ata:I heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked an Ansari woman (Ibn `Abbas named her but `Ata' 
forgot her name), 'What prevented you from performing Hajj with us?' She replied, 'We have a camel 
and the father of so-and-so and his son (i.e. her husband and her son) rode it and left one camel for us 
to use for irrigation.' He said (to her), 'Perform `Umra when Ramadan comes, for `Umra in Ramadan 
is equal to Hajj (in reward),' or said something similar."
Bukhari:1783 Narrated Aisha:We set out along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) shortly before the appearance of the new moon (crescent) of the 
month of Dhi-l-Hijja and he said to us, "Whoever wants to assume Ihram for Hajj may do so; and 
whoever wants to assume Ihram for `Umra may do so. Hadn't I brought the Hadi (animal for 
sacrificing) (with me), I would have assumed Ihram for `Umra." (`Aisha added,): So some of us 
assumed Ihram for `Umra while the others for Hajj. I was amongst those who assumed Ihram for 
`Umra. The day of `Arafat approached and I was still menstruating. I complained to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
(about that) and he said, "Abandon your `Umra, undo and comb your hair, and assume Ihram for 
Hajj;." When it was the night of Hasba, he sent `Abdur Rahman with me to at-Tan`im and I assumed 
Ihram for `Umra (and performed it) in lieu of my missed `Umra.
Bukhari:1784 Narrated `Amr bin Aus:`Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) had ordered him to let `Aisha ride behind him 
and to make her perform `Umra from at-Tan`im.
Bukhari:1785 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions assumed Ihram for Hajj and none except the Prophet (ﷺ) and Talha had 
the Hadi with them. `Ali had come from Yemen and he had the Hadi with him. He (`Ali) said, "I have 
assumed Ihram with an intention like that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has assumed it." The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his 
companions to intend the Ihram with which they had come for `Umra, to perform the Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba (and between Safa and Marwa), to get their hair cut short and then to finish their Ihram with the 
exception of those who had the Hadi with them. They asked, "Shall we go to Mina and the private 
organs of some of us are dribbling (if we finish Ihram and have sexual relations with our wives)?" The 
Prophet heard that and said, "Had I known what I know now, I would not have brought the Hadi. If I 
did not have the Hadi with me I would have finished my Ihram." `Aisha got her menses and 
performed all the ceremonies (of Hajj) except the Tawaf . So when she became clean from her 
menses, and she had performed the Tawaf of the Ka`ba, she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You (people) 
are returning with both Hajj and `Umra and I am returning only with Hajj!" So, he ordered `Abdur 
Rahman bin Abu Bakr to go with her to at-Tan`im. Thus she performed `Umra after the Hajj in the 
month of Dhi-l-Hijja. Suraqa bin Malik bin Ju'sham met the Prophet (ﷺ) at Al-`Aqaba (Jamrat-ul 'Aqaba) 
while the latter was stoning it and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Is this permissible only for you?" The 
Prophet replied, "No, it is for ever (i.e. it is permissible for all Muslims to perform `Umra before 
Hajj."
Bukhari:1786 Narrated `Aisha:We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) shortly before the appearance of the new moon of Dhi-l-Hijja and he 
said, "Whoever wants to assume Ihram for `Umra may do so, and whoever wants to assume Ihram for 
Hajj may do so. Had not I brought the Hadi with me, I would have assumed Ihram for `Umra." Some 
of the people assumed Ihram for `Umra while others for Hajj. I was amongst those who had assumed 
Ihram for `Umra. I got my menses before entering Mecca, and was menstruating till the day of 
`Arafat. I complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it, he said, "Abandon your `Umra, undo and comb your 
hair, and assume Ihram for Hajj." So, I did that accordingly. When it was the night of Hasba (day of 
departure from Mina), the Prophet (ﷺ) sent `Abdur Rahman with me to at-Tan`im. 
The sub-narrator adds: He (`Abdur-Rahman) let her ride behind him. And she assumed Ihram for 
`Umra in lieu of the abandoned one. Aisha completed her Hajj and `Umra, and no Hadi, Sadaqa 
(charity), or fasting was obligatory for her.
Bukhari:1787 Narrated Al-Aswad:That `Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The people are returning after performing the two Nusuks (i.e. 
Hajj and `Umra) but I am returning with one only?" He said, "Wait till you become clean from your 
menses and then go to at-Tan`im, assume Ihram (and after performing `Umra) join us at such-andsuch 
a place. But it (i.e. the reward if `Umra) is according to your expenses or the hardship (which you 
will undergo while performing it).
Bukhari:1788 Narrated `Aisha:We set out assuming the Ihram for Hajj in the months of Hajj towards the sacred precincts of Hajj. We 
dismounted at Sarif and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to his companions, "Whoever has not got the Hadi with him 
and likes to make it as `Umra, he should do it, but he who has got the Hadi with him should not do it." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his wealthy companions had the Hadi with them, so they did not finish 
Ihram after performing the `Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) came to me while I was weeping. He asked me the 
reason for it. I replied, "I have heard of what you have said to your companions and I cannot do the 
`Umra." He asked me, "What is the matter with you?" I replied, "I am not praying." He said, "There is 
no harm in it as you are one of the daughters of Adam and the same is written for you as for others. 
So, you should perform Hajj and I hope that Allah will enable you to perform the `Umra as well." So, 
I carried on till we departed from Mina and halted at Al-Mahassab. The Prophet (ﷺ) called `Abdur- 
Rahman and said, "Go out of the sanctuary with your sister and let her assume Ihram for `Umra, and 
after both of you have finished the Tawaf I will be waiting for you at this place." We came back at 
midnight and the Prophet (ﷺ) asked us, "Have you finished?" I replied in the affirmative. He announced 
the departure and the people set out for the journey and some of them had performed the Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba before the morning prayer, and after that the Prophet (ﷺ) set out for Medina.
Bukhari:1789 Narrated Safwan bin Ya`la bin Umaiya from his father who said:"A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was at Ji'rana. The man was wearing a cloak which had traces of 
Khaluq or Sufra (a kind of perfume). The man asked (the Prophet (ﷺ) ), 'What do you order me to perform 
in my `Umra?' So, Allah inspired the Prophet (ﷺ) divinely and he was screened by a place of cloth. I 
wished to see the Prophet (ﷺ) being divinely inspired. `Umar said to me, 'Come! Will you be pleased to 
look at the Prophet (ﷺ) while Allah is inspiring him?' I replied in the affirmative. `Umar lifted one corner 
of the cloth and I looked at the Prophet (ﷺ) who was snoring. (The sub-narrator thought that he said: The 
snoring was like that of a camel). When that state was over, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Where is the 
questioner who asked about `Umra? Put off your cloak and wash away the traces of Khaluq from your 
body and clean the Sufra (yellow color) and perform in your Umra what you perform in your Hajj (i.e. 
the Tawaf round the Ka`ba and the Sa`i between Safa and Marwa). "
Bukhari:1790 Narrated Hisham Ibn `Urwa from his father who said:While I was a youngster, I asked `Aisha the wife of the Prophet. "What about the meaning of the 
Statement of Allah; 
"Verily! (the mountains) As-Safa and Al Marwa, are among the symbols of Allah. So, it is not 
harmful if those who perform Hajj or `Umra of the House (Ka`ba at Mecca) to perform the going 
(Tawaf) between them? (2.158) I understand (from that) that there is no harm if somebody does not 
perform the Tawaf between them." `Aisha replied, "No, for if it were as you are saying, then the 
recitation would have been like this: 'It is not harmful not to perform Tawaf between them.' This verse 
was revealed in connection with the Ansar who used to assume the Ihram for the idol Manat which 
was put beside a place called Qudaid and those people thought it not right to perform the Tawaf of As- 
Safa and Al-Marwa. When Islam came, they asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that, and Allah revealed:-- 
"Verily! (the mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwa Are among the symbols of Allah. So, it is not 
harmful of those who perform Hajj or `Umra of the House (Ka`ba at Mecca) to perform the going 
(Tawaf) between them." (2.158) Sufyan and Abu Muawiya added from Hisham (from `Aisha): "The 
Hajj or `Umra of the person who does not perform the going (Tawaf) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa 
is incomplete in Allah's sight.
Bukhari:1791 Narrated Isma`il:`Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed `Umra and we too performed `Umra along 
with him. When he entered Mecca he performed the Tawaf (of Ka`ba) and we too performed it along 
with him, and then he came to the As-Safa and Al-Marwa (i.e. performed the Sai) and we also came to 
them along with him. We were shielding him from the people of Mecca lest they may hit him with an 
arrow." A friend of his asked him (i.e. `Abdullah bin `Aufa), "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) enter the Ka`ba (during 
that `Umra)?" He replied in the negative. Then he said, "What did he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) say about 
Khadija?" He (Abdullah bin `Aufa) said, "(He said) 'Give Khadija the good tidings that she will have a 
palace made of Qasab in Paradise and there will be neither noise nor any trouble in it."
Bukhari:1792 Narrated Isma`il:`Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed `Umra and we too performed `Umra along 
with him. When he entered Mecca he performed the Tawaf (of Ka`ba) and we too performed it along 
with him, and then he came to the As-Safa and Al-Marwa (i.e. performed the Sai) and we also came to 
them along with him. We were shielding him from the people of Mecca lest they may hit him with an 
arrow." A friend of his asked him (i.e. `Abdullah bin `Aufa), "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) enter the Ka`ba (during 
that `Umra)?" He replied in the negative. Then he said, "What did he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) say about 
Khadija?" He (Abdullah bin `Aufa) said, "(He said) 'Give Khadija the good tidings that she will have a 
palace made of Qasab in Paradise and there will be neither noise nor any trouble in it."
Bukhari:1793 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:We asked Ibn `Umar whether a man who had performed the Tawaf of the Ka`ba but had not 
performed the Tawaf between As-Safa and Al-Marwa yet, was permitted to have sexual relation with 
his wife. He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Mecca) and circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times and 
then offered a two rak`at prayer behind Maqam-lbrahim and then performed the going (Tawaf) 
between As-Safa and Al-Marwa (seven times) (and verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good 
example." And we asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question) and he replied, "He should not go 
near her till he has finished the going (Tawaf) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa."
Bukhari:1794 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:We asked Ibn `Umar whether a man who had performed the Tawaf of the Ka`ba but had not 
performed the Tawaf between As-Safa and Al-Marwa yet, was permitted to have sexual relation with 
his wife. He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Mecca) and circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times and 
then offered a two rak`at prayer behind Maqam-lbrahim and then performed the going (Tawaf) 
between As-Safa and Al-Marwa (seven times) (and verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good 
example." And we asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question) and he replied, "He should not go 
near her till he has finished the going (Tawaf) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa."
Bukhari:1795 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) at Al-Batha' while his camel was kneeling down and he asked me, "Have you 
intended to perform the Hajj?" I replied in the affirmative. He asked me, 'With what intention have 
you assumed Ihram?" I replied, "I have assumed Ihram with the same intention as that of the Prophet. 
He said, "You have done well. Perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba and (the Sai) between As-Safa and Al- 
Marwa and then finish the Ihram." So, I performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba and the Sai) between 
As-Safa and Al-Marwa and then went to a woman of the tribe of Qais who cleaned my head from lice. 
Later I assumed the Ihram for Hajj. I used to give the verdict of doing the same till the caliphate of 
`Umar who said, "If you follow the Holy Book then it orders you to remain in the state of Ihram till 
you finish from Hajj, if you follow the Prophet (ﷺ) then he did not finish his Ihram till the Hadi (sacrifice) 
had reached its place of slaughtering (Hajj-al-Qiran).
Bukhari:1796 Narrated Al-Aswad:`Abdullah the slave of Asma bint Abu Bakr, told me that he used to hear Asma', whenever she passed 
by Al-Hajun, saying, "May Allah bless His Apostle Muhammad. Once we dismounted here with him, 
and at that time we were traveling with light luggage; we had a few riding animals and a little food 
ration. I, my sister, `Aisha, Az-Zubair and such and such persons performed `Umra, and when we had 
passed our hands over the Ka`ba (i.e. performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between As-Safa and Al- 
Marwa) we finished our lhram. Later on we assumed Ihram for Hajj the same evening."
Bukhari:1797 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from a Ghazwa, Hajj or `Umra, he used to say Takbir thrice at 
every elevation of the ground and then would say, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah; He 
is One and has no partner. All the kingdoms is for Him, and all the praises are for Him, and He is 
Omnipotent. We are returning with repentance, worshipping, prostrating, and praising our Lord. He 
has kept up His promise and made His slave victorious, and He Alone defeated all the clans of (nonbelievers).
Bukhari:1798 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca, some boys of the tribe of Bani `Abdul Muttalib went to receive 
him, and the Prophet (ﷺ) made one of them ride in front of him and the other behind him.
Bukhari:1799 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left for Mecca, he used to pray in the mosque of Ash-Shajra, and when he 
returned (to Medina), he used to pray in the middle of the valley of Dhul-Hulaifa and used to pass the 
night there till morning.
Bukhari:1800 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) never returned to his family from a journey at night. He used to return either in the 
morning or in the afternoon.
Bukhari:1801 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade going to one's family at night (on arrival from a journey).
Bukhari:1802 Narrated Humaid:Anas said, "Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from a journey, he, on seeing the high places of 
Medina, would make his she-camel proceed faster; and if it were another animal, even then he used to 
make it proceed faster." 
Narrated Humaid that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to make it proceed faster out of his love for Medina.Narrated Anas:As above, but mentioned "the walls of Medina" instead of "the high places of Medina." Al-Harith bin `Umar agrees with Anas.
Bukhari:1803 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:I heard Al-Bara' saying, "The above Verse was revealed regarding us, for the Ansar on returning from 
Hajj never entered their houses through the proper doors but from behind. One of the Ansar came and 
entered through the door and he was taunted for it. Therefore, the following was revealed: -- 
"It is not righteousness That you enter the houses from the back, But the righteous man is He who 
fears Allah, Obeys His order and keeps away from What He has forbidden So, enter houses through 
the proper doors." (2.189)
Bukhari:1804 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Traveling is a kind of torture as it prevents one from eating, drinking and sleeping 
properly. So, when one's needs are fulfilled, one should return quickly to one's family."
Bukhari:1805 Narrated Zaid bin Aslam from his father:I was with Ibn `Umar on the way to Mecca, and he got the news that Safiya bint Abu Ubaid was 
seriously ill. So, he hastened his pace, and when the twilight disappeared, he dismounted and offered 
the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together. Then he said, "I saw that whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) had to hasten 
when traveling, he would delay the Maghrib prayer and join them together (i.e. offer the Maghrib and 
the `Isha prayers together).
Bukhari:1806 Narrated Nafi`:When `Abdullah bin `Umar set out for Mecca intending to perform Umra, at the time of afflictions, he 
said, "If I should be prevented from reaching the Ka`ba, then I would do the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
did, so I assume the lhram for Umra as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assumed the Ihram for Umra in the year of 
Hudaibiya."
Bukhari:1807 Narrated Nafi`:That Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah and Salim bin `Abdullah informed him that they told Ibn `Umar when 
Ibn Az-Zubair was attacked by the army, saying "There is no harm for you if you did not perform Hajj 
this year. We are afraid that you may be prevented from reaching the Ka`ba." Ibn `Umar said "We set 
out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the non-believers of Quraish prevented us from reaching the Ka`ba, and 
so the Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered his Hadi and got his head shaved." Ibn `Umar added, "I make you 
witnesses that I have made `Umra obligatory for me. And, Allah willing, I will go and then if the way 
to Ka`ba is clear, I will perform the Tawaf, but if I am prevented from going to the Ka`ba then I will 
do the same as the Prophet (ﷺ) did while I was in his company." Ibn `Umar then assumed Ihram for Umra 
from Dhul-Hulaifa and proceeded for a while and said, "The conditions of `Umra and Hajj are similar 
and I make you witnesses that I have made `Umra and Hajj obligatory for myself." So, he did not 
finish the Ihram till the day of Nahr (slaughtering) came, and he slaughtered his Hadi. He used to say, 
"I will not finish the Ihram till I perform the Tawaf, one Tawaf on the day of entering Mecca (i.e. of 
Safa and Marwa for both `Umra and Hajj).
Bukhari:1808 Narrated Nafi`:Some of the sons of `Abdullah told him (i.e. `Abdullah) if he had stayed (and not performed Hajj that 
year).
Bukhari:1809 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was prevented from performing (`Umra) Therefore, he shaved his head and had sexual 
relations with his wives and slaughtered his Hadi and performed Umra in the following year.
Bukhari:1810 Narrated Salim:(Abdullah) bin `Umar used to say, "Is not (the following of) the tradition of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sufficient 
for you? If anyone of you is prevented from performing Hajj, he should perform the Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba and between As-Safa and Al-Marwa and then finish the Ihram and everything will become 
legal for him which was illegal for him (during the state of Ihram) and he can perform Hajj in a 
following year and he should slaughter a Hadi or fast in case he cannot afford the Hadi."
Bukhari:1811 Narrated Al-Miswar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slaughtered (the Hadi) before he had his head shaved and then he ordered his 
Companions to do the same.
Bukhari:1812 Narrated Nafi`:That `Abdullah and Salim said to `Abdullah bin `Umar, "(You should not go for Hajj this year)." 
`Abdullah bin `Umar replied, "We set out with the Prophet (to Mecca for performing `Umra) and the 
infidels of Quraish prevented us from reaching the Ka`ba. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slaughtered his Budn 
(camels for sacrifice) and got his head shaved."
Bukhari:1813 Narrated Nafi`:When `Abdullah bin `Umar set out for Mecca with the intentions performing `Umra in the period of 
afflictions, he said, "If I should be prevented from reaching the Ka`ba, then I would do the same as we 
did while in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ." So, he assumed the Ihram for `Umra since the Prophet (ﷺ) 
had assumed the Ihram for `Umra in the year of Al-Hudaibiya. Then `Abdullah bin `Umar thought 
about it and said, "The conditions for both Hajj and `Umra are similar." He then turned towards his 
companions and said, "The conditions of both Hajj and `Umra are similar and I make you witnesses 
that I have made the performance of Hajj obligatory for myself along with `Umra." He then performed 
one Tawaf (between As-Safa and Al-Marwa) for both of them (i.e. Hajj and (`Umra) and considered 
that to be sufficient for him and offered a Hadi.
Bukhari:1814 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Layla:Ka`b bin 'Ujra said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him (Ka`b), "Perhaps your lice have troubled you?" 
Ka`b replied, "Yes! O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Have your head shaved and then either 
fast three days or feed six poor persons or slaughter one sheep as a sacrifice."
Bukhari:1815 Narrated Ka`b bin `Umra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood beside me at Al-Hudaibiya and the lice were falling from my head in great 
number. He asked me, "Have your lice troubled you?" I replied in the affirmative. He ordered me to 
get my head shaved. Ka`b added, "This Holy Verse:--'And if any of you is ill, or has ailment in his 
scalp (2.196), etc. was revealed regarding me. "The Prophet (ﷺ) then ordered me either to fast three days, 
or to feed six poor persons with one Faraq (three Sas) (of dates), or to slaughter a sheep, etc. 
(sacrifice) whatever was available.
Bukhari:1816 Narrated `Abdullah bin Ma'qal:I sat with Ka`b bin 'Ujra and asked him about the Fidya. He replied, "This revelation was revealed 
concerning my case especially, but it is also for you in general. I was carried to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
the lice were falling in great number on my face. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have never thought that your 
ailment (or struggle) has reached to such an extent as I see. Can you afford a sheep?" I replied in the 
negative. He then said, "Fast for three days, or feed six poor persons each with half a Sa of food." (1 
Sa = 3 Kilograms approx.)
Bukhari:1817 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Layla:(Reporting the speech of Ka`b bin Umra) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him (i.e. Ka`b) while the lice were 
falling on his face. He asked (him), "Have your lice troubled you?" He replied in the affirmative. So, 
he ordered him to get his head shaved while he was at Al-Hudaibiya. At that time they were not 
permitted to finish their Ihram, and were still hoping to enter Mecca. So, Allah revealed the verses of 
Al-Fidya. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him to feed six poor persons with one Faraq of food or to slaughter 
one sheep (as a sacrifice) or to fast for three days.
Bukhari:1818 Narrated Ka'b bin 'Ujra (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him (i.e. Ka'b) while the lice were falling on his face.
Bukhari:1819 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs Hajj to this House (Ka`ba) and does not approach his wife 
for sexual relations nor commits sins (while performing Hajj), he will come out as sinless as a newlyborn 
child. (Just delivered by his mother).
Bukhari:1820 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs Hajj to this Ka`ba and does not approach his wife for sexual 
relations nor commit sins (while performing Hajj), he will come out as sinless as a newborn child, 
(just delivered by his mother).
Bukhari:1821 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Qatada:My father set out (for Mecca) in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and his companions assumed Ihram, but he 
did not. At that time the Prophet (ﷺ) was informed that an enemy wanted to attack him, so the Prophet (ﷺ) 
proceeded onwards. While my father was among his companions, some of them laughed among 
themselves. (My father said), "I looked up and saw an onager. I attacked, stabbed and caught it. I then 
sought my companions' help but they refused to help me. (Later) we all ate its meat. We were afraid 
that we might be left behind (separated) from the Prophet (ﷺ) so I went in search of the Prophet (ﷺ) and made 
my horse to run at a galloping speed at times and let it go slow at an ordinary speed at other times till I 
met a man from the tribe of Bani Ghifar at midnight. I asked him, "Where did you leave the Prophet (ﷺ) 
?" He replied, "I left him at Ta'hun and he had the intention of having the midday rest at As-Suqya. I 
followed the trace and joined the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Your people (companions) 
send you their compliments, and (ask for) Allah's Blessings upon you. They are afraid lest they may 
be left behind; so please wait for them.' I added, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I hunted an onager and some of 
its meat is with me. The Prophet (ﷺ) told the people to eat it though all of them were in the state of 
Ihram."
Bukhari:1822 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Qatada:That his father said "We proceeded with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the year of Al-Hudaibiya and his companions 
assumed Ihram but I did not. We were informed that some enemies were at Ghaiqa and so we went on 
towards them. My companions saw an onager and some of them started laughing among themselves. I 
looked and saw it. I chased it with my horse and stabbed and caught it. I wanted some help from my 
companions but they refused. (I slaughtered it all alone). We all ate from it (i.e. its meat). Then I 
followed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lest we should be left behind. At times I urged my horse to run at a galloping 
speed and at other times at an ordinary slow speed. On the way I met a man from the tribe of Bani 
Ghifar at midnight. I asked him where he had left Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . The man replied that he had left 
the Prophet (ﷺ) at a place called Ta'hun and he had the intention of having the midday rest at As-Suqya. 
So, I followed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till I reached him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have been sent by my 
companions who send you their greetings and compliments and ask for Allah's Mercy and Blessings 
upon you. They were afraid lest the enemy might intervene between you and them; so please wait for 
them." So he did. Then I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We have hunted an onager and have some of it (i.e. 
its meat) left over." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told his companions to eat the meat although all of them were in a 
state of Ihram."
Bukhari:1823 Narrated Abu Qatada:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) at a place called Al-Qaha (which is at a distance of three 
stages of journey from Medina). Abu Qatada narrated through another group of narrators: We were in 
the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) at a place called Al-Qaha and some of us had assumed Ihram while the 
others had not. I noticed that some of my companions were watching something, so I looked up and 
saw an onager. (I rode my horse and took the spear and whip) but my whip fell down (and I asked 
them to pick it up for me) but they said, "We will not help you by any means as we are in a state of 
Ihram." So, I picked up the whip myself and attacked the onager from behind a hillock and 
slaughtered it and brought it to my companions. Some of them said, "Eat it." While some others said, 
"Do not eat it." So, I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) who was ahead of us and asked him about it, He replied, "Eat 
it as it is Halal (i.e. it is legal to eat it).
Bukhari:1824 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Qatada:That his father had told him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for Hajj and so did his companions. He sent a 
batch of his companions by another route and Abu Qatada was one of them. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to them, 
"Proceed along the seashore till we meet all together." So, they took the route of the seashore, and 
when they started all of them assumed Ihram except Abu Qatada. While they were proceeding on, his 
companions saw a group of onagers. Abu Qatada chased the onagers and attacked and wounded a sheonager. 
They got down and ate some of its meat and said to each other: "How do we eat the meat of 
the game while we are in a state of Ihram?" So, we (they) carried the rest of the she-onager's meat, and 
when they met Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) they asked, saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We assumed Ihram with the 
exception of Abu Qatada and we saw (a group) of onagers. Abu Qatada attacked them and wounded a 
she-onager from them. Then we got down and ate from its meat. Later, we said, (to each other), 'How 
do we eat the meat of the game and we are in a state of Ihram?' So, we carried the rest of its meat. The 
Prophet asked, "Did anyone of you order Abu Qatada to attack it or point at it?" They replied in the 
negative. He said, "Then eat what is left of its meat."
Bukhari:1825 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:From As-Sa'b bin Jath-thama Al-Laithi that the latter presented an onager to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he 
was at Al-Abwa' or at Waddan, and he refused it. On noticing the signs of some unpleasant feeling of 
disappointment on his (As-Sab's) face, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I have only returned it because I am 
Muhrim."
Bukhari:1826 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not sinful of a Muhrim to kill five kinds of animals."
Bukhari:1827 One of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) narrated:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muhrim can kill (five kinds of animals.)"
Bukhari:1828 Narrated Hafsa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not sinful (of a Muhrim) to kill five kinds of animals, namely: the crow, the 
kite, the mouse, the scorpion and the rabid dog."
Bukhari:1829 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Five kinds of animals are harmful and could be killed in the Haram (Sanctuary). 
These are: the crow, the kite, the scorpion, the mouse and the rabid dog."
Bukhari:1830 Narrated `Abdullah:While we were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in a cave at Mina, when Surat-wal-Mursalat were 
revealed and he recited it and I heard it (directly) from his mouth as soon as he recited its revelation. 
Suddenly a snake sprang at us and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (ordered us): "Kill it." We ran to kill it but it 
escaped quickly. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has escaped your evil and you too have escaped its evil."
Bukhari:1831 Narrated `Aisha the wife of the Prophet:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called the salamander a bad animal, but I did not hear him ordering it to be killed."
Bukhari:1832 Narrated Sa`id bin Abu Sa`id Al-Maqburi:Abu Shuraih, Al-`Adawi said that he had said to `Amr bin Sa`id when he was sending the troops to 
Mecca (to fight `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair), "O Chief! Allow me to tell you what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said 
on the day following the Conquest of Mecca. My ears heard that and my heart understood it 
thoroughly and I saw with my own eyes the Prophet (ﷺ) when he, after Glorifying and Praising Allah, 
started saying, 'Allah, not the people, made Mecca a sanctuary, so anybody who has belief in Allah 
and the Last Day should neither shed blood in it, nor should he cut down its trees. If anybody tells 
(argues) that fighting in it is permissible on the basis that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did fight in Mecca, say to 
him, 'Allah allowed His Apostle and did not allow you.' "Allah allowed me only for a few hours on 
that day (of the conquest) and today its sanctity is valid as it was before. So, those who are present 
should inform those who are absent (concerning this fact." Abu Shuraih was asked, "What did `Amr 
reply?" He said, (`Amr said) 'O Abu Shuraih! I know better than you in this respect Mecca does not 
give protection to a sinner, a murderer or a thief."
Bukhari:1833 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Allah has made Mecca, a sanctuary, so it was a sanctuary before me and will 
continue to be a sanctuary after me. It was made legal for me (i.e. I was allowed to fight in it) for a 
few hours of a day. It is not allowed to uproot its shrubs or to cut its trees, or to chase (or disturb) its 
game, or to pick up its luqata (fallen things) except by a person who would announce that (what he has 
found) publicly.' Al-`Abbas said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Except Al-Idhkhir (a kind of grass) (for it is 
used) by our goldsmiths and for our graves.' The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, 'Except Al-Idhkhir.' " `Ikrima said, 
'Do you know what "chasing or disturbing" the game means? It means driving it out of the shade to 
occupy its place."
Bukhari:1834 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:On the day of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no more emigration (from Mecca) 
but Jihad and intentions, and whenever you are called for Jihad, you should go immediately. No 
doubt, Allah has made this place (Mecca) a sanctuary since the creation of the heavens and the earth 
and will remain a sanctuary till the Day of Resurrection as Allah has ordained its sanctity. Fighting 
was not permissible in it for anyone before me, and even for me it was allowed only for a portion of a 
day. So, it is a sanctuary with Allah's sanctity till the Day of Resurrection. Its thorns should not be 
uprooted and its game should not be chased; and its luqata (fallen things) should not be picked up 
except by one who would announce that publicly, and its vegetation (grass etc.) should not be cut." 
Al-`Abbas said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Except Al-Idhkhir, (for it is used by their blacksmiths and for 
their domestic purposes)." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Except Al-Idhkhir."
Bukhari:1835 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped while he was in a state of Ihram.
Bukhari:1836 Narrated Ibn Buhaina:The Prophet, while in the state of Ihram, was cupped at the middle of his head at Liha-Jamal.
Bukhari:1837 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) married Maimuna while he was in the state of Ihram, (only the ceremonies of marriage 
were held).
Bukhari:1838 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A person stood up and asked, "O Allah's: Apostle! What clothes may be worn in the state of Ihram?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Do not wear a shirt or trousers, or any headgear (e.g. a turban), or a hooded 
cloak; but if somebody has no shoes he can wear leather stockings provided they are cut short off the 
ankles, and also, do not wear anything perfumed with Wars or saffron, and the Muhrima (a woman in 
the state of Ihram) should not cover her face, or wear gloves."
Bukhari:1839 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man was crushed to death by his she-camel and was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Give him 
a bath and shroud him, but do not cover his head, and do not bring any perfume near to him, as he will 
be resurrected reciting Talbiya."
Bukhari:1840 Narrated `Abdullah bin Hunain:`Abdullah bin Al-Abbas and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama differed at Al-Abwa'; Ibn `Abbas said that a 
Muhrim could wash his head; while Al-Miswar maintained that he should not do so. `Abdullah bin 
`Abbas sent me to Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari and I found him bathing between the two wooden posts (of 
the well) and was screened with a sheet of cloth. I greeted him and he asked who I was. I replied, "I 
am `Abdullah bin Hunain and I have been sent to you by Ibn `Abbas to ask you how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
used to wash his head while in the state of lhram." Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari caught hold of the sheet of 
cloth and lowered it till his head appeared before me, and then told somebody to pour water on his 
head. He poured water on his head, and he (Abu Aiyub) rubbed his head with his hands by bringing 
them from back to front and from front to back and said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) doing like this."
Bukhari:1841 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon at `Arafat saying, "If a Muhrim does not find slippers, he 
could wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather, but he has to cut short the Khuffs below 
the ankles), and if he does not find an Izar (a waist sheet for wrapping the lower half of the body) he 
could wear trousers."
Bukhari:1842 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked what sort of clothes a Muhrim should wear. He replied, "He should not 
wear a shirt, turbans, trousers, a hooded cloak, or a dress perfumed with saffron or Wars; and if 
slippers are not available he can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) but he should 
cut them so that they reach below the ankles.
Bukhari:1843 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon at `Arafat and said, "Whoever does not get an Izar can wear trousers, 
and whoever cannot get a pair of shoes can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather)."
Bukhari:1844 Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) assumed Ihram for Umra in the month of Dhul-Qa'da but the (pagan) people of Mecca 
refused to admit him into Mecca till he agreed on the condition that he would not bring into Mecca 
any arms but sheathed.
Bukhari:1845 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Dhul-Hulaifa as the Miqat (the place for assuming Ihram) for the people of Medina, 
and Qaran-al-Manazil for the people of Najd, and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen. These Mawaqit 
are for those people and also for those who come through these Mawaqit (from places other than the 
above-mentioned) with the intention of (performing) Hajj and Umra. And those living inside these 
Mawaqit can assume Ihram from the place where they start; even the people of Mecca can assume 
Ihram from Mecca.
Bukhari:1846 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Mecca in the year of its Conquest wearing an Arabian helmet on his head and 
when the Prophet (ﷺ) took it off, a person came and said, "Ibn Khatal is holding the covering of the Ka`ba 
(taking refuge in the Ka`ba)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill him."
Bukhari:1847 Narrated Ya'li:While I was with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) there came to him a man wearing a cloak having a trace of yellowish 
perfume or a similar thing on it. `Umar used to say to me, "Would you like to see the Prophet (ﷺ) at the 
time when he is inspired divinely?" So, it happened that he was inspired (then) and when the 
inspiration was over the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to that man), "Do in your `Umra the same as you do in your 
Hajj."
Bukhari:1848 A man bit the hand of another man but in that process the latter broke one incisor tooth of the former, and the Prophet (ﷺ) forgave the latter.
Bukhari:1849 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While a man was standing with the Prophet (ﷺ) at `Arafat, he fell from his Mount and his neck was 
crushed by it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wash the deceased with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces 
of cloth, and neither perfume him nor cover his head, for Allah will resurrect him on the Day of 
Resurrection and he will be reciting Talbiya."
Bukhari:1850 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While a man was standing with the Prophet (ﷺ) at `Arafat, he fell from his Mount and his neck was 
crushed by it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wash the deceased with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces 
of cloth, and neither perfume him nor cover his head, for Allah will resurrect him on the Day of 
Resurrection and he will be reciting Talbiya."
Bukhari:1851 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and his she-camel crushed his neck while he was in a state 
of Ihram and he died Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in his two 
garments; neither perfume him nor cover his head, for he will be resurrected on the Day of 
Resurrection, reciting Talbiya."
Bukhari:1852 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A woman from the tribe of Juhaina came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "My mother had vowed to perform 
Hajj but she died before performing it. May I perform Hajj on my mother's behalf?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied, "Perform Hajj on her behalf. Had there been a debt on your mother, would you have paid it or 
not? So, pay Allah's debt as He has more right to be paid."
Bukhari:1853 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A woman from the tribe of Khath'am came in the year (of ,Hajjat-al-Wada` of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) and said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My father has come under Allah's obligation of performing Hajj but he is a very 
old man and cannot sit properly on his Mount. Will the obligation be fulfilled if I perform Hajj on his 
behalf?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative.
Bukhari:1854 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Al-Fadl was riding behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and a woman from the tribe of Khath'am came up. Al-Fadl 
started looking at her and she looked at him. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned Al-Fadl's face to the other side. She 
said, "My father has come under Allah's obligation of performing Hajj but he is a very old man and 
cannot sit properly on his Mount. Shall I perform Hajj on his behalf? The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the 
affirmative. That happened during Hajjat-al-Wada` of the Prophet (ﷺ) .
Bukhari:1855 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas (ra):Al Fadl was riding behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and a woman from the tribe of Khath'am came up. Al Fadl started looking at her and she looked at him. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned Al-Fadl's face to the other side. She said, "My father has come under Allah's obligation of performing Hajj but he is very old man and cannot sit properly on his Rahila (mount). Shall I perform Hajj on his behalf ? The Prophet (ﷺ) replied affirmative. That happened during Hajjat-ul-Wada' of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Bukhari:1856 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me (to Mina) with the luggage from Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) at night.
Bukhari:1857 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:I came riding on my she-ass and had (just) then attained the age of puberty. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was 
praying at Mina. I passed in front of a part of the first row and then dismounted from it, and the 
animal started grazing. I aligned with the people behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (The sub-narrator added that 
happened in Mina during the Prophet's Hajjat-al-Wada`.)
Bukhari:1858 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:(While in the company of my parents) I was made to perform Hajj with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I was a 
seven-year-old boy then. (Fath-ul-Bari, p.443, Vol.4)
Bukhari:1859 Narrated Al-Ju'aid bin `Abdur-Rahman:I heard `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz telling about As-Sa'ib bin Yazid that he had performed Hajj (while 
carried) with the belongings of the Prophet.
Bukhari:1860 Narrated Ibrahim's grand-father that 'Umar(ra) in his last Hajj allowed the wives of the Prophet(ﷺ)to perform Hajj and he sent with them 'Uthman bin 'Affan(ra) and 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Auf(ra) as escorts.
Bukhari:1861 Narrated Aisha (mother of the faithful believers):I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shouldn't we participate in Holy battles and Jihad along with you?" He 
replied, "The best and the most superior Jihad (for women) is Hajj which is accepted by Allah." 
`Aisha added: Ever since I heard that from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I have determined not to miss Hajj.
Bukhari:1862 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel except with a Dhu-Mahram (her husband or a man with 
whom that woman cannot marry at all according to the Islamic Jurisprudence), and no man may visit 
her except in the presence of a Dhu-Mahram." A man got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I intend to 
go to such and such an army and my wife wants to perform Hajj." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Go 
along with her (to Hajj).
Bukhari:1863 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned after performing his Hajj, he asked Um Sinan Al-Ansari, "What did forbid 
you to perform Hajj?" She replied, "Father of so-and-so (i.e. her husband) had two camels and he 
performed Hajj on one of them, and the second is used for the irrigation of our land." The Prophet (ﷺ) said 
(to her), "Perform `Umra in the month of Ramadan, (as it is equivalent to Hajj or Hajj with me (in 
reward).
Bukhari:1864 Narrated Qaza'a the slave of Ziyad:Abu Sa`id who participated in twelve Ghazawat with the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I heard four things from 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (or I narrate them from the Prophet (ﷺ) ) which won my admiration and appreciation. 
They are: 
-1. "No lady should travel without her husband or without a Dhu-Mahram for a two-days' journey. 
-2. No fasting is permissible on two days of `Id-ul-Fitr, and `Id-al-Adha. 
-3. No prayer (may be offered) after two prayers: after the `Asr prayer till the sun set and after the 
morning prayer till the sun rises. 
-4. Not to travel (for visiting) except for three mosques: Masjid-al-Haram (in Mecca), my Mosque (in 
Medina), and Masjid-al-Aqsa (in Jerusalem).
Bukhari:1865 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw an old man walking, supported by his two sons, and asked about him. The people 
informed him that he had vowed to go on foot (to the Ka`ba). He said, "Allah is not in need of this old 
man's torturing himself," and ordered him to ride.
Bukhari:1866 Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:My sister vowed to go on foot to the Ka`ba, and she asked me to take the verdict of the Prophet (ﷺ) about 
it. So, I did and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "She should walk and also should ride."Narrated Abul-Khair from `Uqba as above.:
Bukhari:1867 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Medina is a sanctuary from that place to that. Its trees should not be cut and no 
heresy should be innovated nor any sin should be committed in it, and whoever innovates in it an 
heresy or commits sins (bad deeds), then he will incur the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the 
people." (See Hadith No. 409, Vol 9).
Bukhari:1868 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to Medina and ordered a mosque to be built and said, "O Bani Najjar! Suggest to 
me the price (of your land)." They said, "We do not want its price except from Allah" (i.e. they wished 
for a reward from Allah for giving up their land freely). So, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the graves of the 
pagans to be dug out and the land to be leveled, and the date-palm trees to be cut down. The cut datepalms 
were fixed in the direction of the Qibla of the mosque.
Bukhari:1869 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have made Medina a sanctuary between its two (Harrat) mountains." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
went to the tribe of Bani Haritha and said (to them), "I see that you have gone out of the sanctuary," 
but looking around, he added, "No, you are inside the sanctuary."
Bukhari:1870 Narrated `Ali:We have nothing except the Book of Allah and this written paper from the Prophet (wherein is 
written:) Medina is a sanctuary from the 'Air Mountain to such and such a place, and whoever 
innovates in it an heresy or commits a sin, or gives shelter to such an innovator in it will incur the 
curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people, none of his compulsory or optional good deeds of 
worship will be accepted. And the asylum (of protection) granted by any Muslim is to be secured 
(respected) by all the other Muslims; and whoever betrays a Muslim in this respect incurs the curse of 
Allah, the angels, and all the people, and none of his compulsory or optional good deeds of worship 
will be accepted, and whoever (freed slave) befriends (take as masters) other than his manumitters 
without their permission incurs the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people, and none of his 
compulsory or optional good deeds of worship will be accepted.
Bukhari:1871 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I was ordered to migrate to a town which will swallow (conquer) other towns 
and is called Yathrib and that is Medina, and it turns out (bad) persons as a furnace removes the 
impurities of iron.
Bukhari:1872 Narrated Abu Humaid:We came with the Prophet (ﷺ) from Tabuk, and when we reached near Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is 
Tabah."
Bukhari:1873 Narrated Abu Huraira:If I saw deers grazing in Medina, I would not chase them, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(Medina) is a 
sanctuary between its two mountains."
Bukhari:1874 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The people will leave Medina in spite of the best state it will have, 
and none except the wild birds and the beasts of prey will live in it, and the last persons who will die 
will be two shepherds from the tribe of Muzaina, who will be driving their sheep towards Medina, but 
will find nobody in it, and when they reach the valley of Thaniyat-al-Wada`, they will fall down on 
their faces dead."
Bukhari:1875 Narrated Sufyan b. Abu Zuhair:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Yemen will be conquered and some people will migrate (from 
Medina) and will urge their families, and those who will obey them to migrate (to Yemen) although 
Medina will be better for them; if they but knew. Sham will also be conquered and some people will 
migrate (from Medina) and will urge their families and those who will obey them, to migrate (to 
Sham) although Medina will be better for them; if they but knew. 'Iraq will be conquered and some 
people will migrate (from Medina) and will urge their families and those who will obey them to 
migrate (to 'Iraq) although Medina will be better for them; if they but knew."
Bukhari:1876 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Verily, Belief returns and goes back to Medina as a snake returns and goes back 
to its hole (when in danger).
Bukhari:1877 Narrated Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "None plots against the people of Medina but that he will be dissolved 
(destroyed) like the salt is dissolved in water."
Bukhari:1878 Narrated Usama:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) stood at the top of a (looked out from upon one) castle amongst the castles (or the 
high buildings) of Medina and said, "Do you see what I see? (No doubt) I see the spots where 
afflictions will take place among your houses (and these afflictions will be) as numerous as the spots 
where raindrops fall."
Bukhari:1879 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The terror caused by Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal will not enter Medina and at that time 
Medina will have seven gates and there will be two angels at each gate guarding them."
Bukhari:1880 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are angels guarding the entrances (or roads) of Medina, neither plague 
nor Ad-Dajjal will be able to enter it."
Bukhari:1881 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be no town which Ad-Dajjal will not enter except Mecca and Medina, 
and there will be no entrance (road) (of both Mecca and Medina) but the angels will be standing in 
rows guarding it against him, and then Medina will shake with its inhabitants thrice (i.e. three 
earthquakes will take place) and Allah will expel all the non-believers and the hypocrites from it."
Bukhari:1882 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told us a long narrative about Ad-Dajjal, and among the many things he mentioned, 
was his saying, "Ad-Dajjal will come and it will be forbidden for him to pass through the entrances of 
Medina. He will land in some of the salty barren areas (outside) Medina; on that day the best man or 
one of the best men will come up to him and say, 'I testify that you are the same Dajjal whose 
description was given to us by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) .' Ad-Dajjal will say to the people, 'If I kill this man 
and bring him back to life again, will you doubt my claim?' They will say, 'No.' Then Ad-Dajjal will 
kill that man and bring him back to life. That man will say, 'Now I know your reality better than 
before.' Ad-Dajjal will say, 'I want to kill him but I cannot.' "
Bukhari:1883 Narrated Jabir:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and gave a pledge of allegiance for embracing Islam. The next day he 
came with fever and said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "Please cancel my pledge (of embracing Islam and of 
emigrating to Medina)." The Prophet (ﷺ) refused (that request) three times and said, "Medina is like a 
furnace, it expels out the impurities (bad persons) and selects the good ones and makes them perfect."
Bukhari:1884 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went out for (the battle of) Uhud, some of his companions (hypocrites) returned 
(home). A party of the believers remarked that they would kill those (hypocrites) who had returned, 
but another party said that they would not kill them. So, this Divine Inspiration was revealed: "Then 
what is the matter with you that you are divided into two parties concerning the hypocrites." (4.88) 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Medina expels the bad persons from it, as fire expels the impurities of iron."
Bukhari:1885 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow on Medina twice the blessings You bestowed on Mecca."
Bukhari:1886 Narrated Anas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey and observed the walls of Medina, he would make his 
Mount go fast, and if he was on an animal (i.e. a horse), he would make it gallop because of his love 
for Medina.
Bukhari:1887 Narrated Anas:(The people of) Bani Salama intended to shift near the mosque (of the Prophet) but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
disliked to see Medina vacated and said, "O the people of Bani Salama! Don't you think that you will 
be rewarded for your footsteps which you take towards the mosque?" So, they stayed at their old 
places.
Bukhari:1888 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a garden from the gardens of Paradise between my house and my pulpit, 
and my pulpit is on my Lake Fount (Al-Kauthar).
Bukhari:1889 Narrated `Aisha:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached Medina, Abu Bakr and Bilal became ill. When Abu Bakr's fever got 
worse, he would recite (this poetic verse): "Everybody is staying alive with his People, yet Death is 
nearer to him than His shoe laces." And Bilal, when his fever deserted him, would recite: "Would that 
I could stay overnight in A valley wherein I would be Surrounded by Idhkhir and Jalil (kinds of goodsmelling 
grass). Would that one day I could Drink the water of the Majanna, and Would that (The two 
mountains) Shama and Tafil would appear to me!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Curse Shaiba bin 
Rabi`a and `Utba bin Rabi`a and Umaiya bin Khalaf as they turned us out of our land to the land of 
epidemics." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "O Allah! Make us love Medina as we love Mecca or even 
more than that. O Allah! Give blessings in our Sa and our Mudd (measures symbolizing food) and 
make the climate of Medina suitable for us, and divert its fever towards Aljuhfa." Aisha added: When 
we reached Medina, it was the most unhealthy of Allah's lands, and the valley of Bathan (the valley of 
Medina) used to flow with impure colored water.
Bukhari:1890 Narrated Zaid bin Aslam from his father:`Umar said, O Allah! Grant me martyrdom in Your cause, and let my death be in the city of Your 
Apostle."
Bukhari:1891 Narrated Talha bin 'Ubaidullah:A bedouin with unkempt hair came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Inform me what 
Allah has made compulsory for me as regards the prayers." He replied: "You have to offer perfectly 
the five compulsory prayers in a day and night (24 hours), unless you want to pray Nawafil." The 
bedouin further asked, "Inform me what Allah has made compulsory for me as regards fasting." He 
replied, "You have to fast during the whole month of Ramadan, unless you want to fast more as 
Nawafil." The bedouin further asked, "Tell me how much Zakat Allah has enjoined on me." Thus, 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed him about all the rules (i.e. fundamentals) of Islam. The bedouin then said, 
"By Him Who has honored you, I will neither perform any Nawafil nor will I decrease what Allah has 
enjoined on me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If he is saying the truth, he will succeed (or he will be granted 
Paradise).
Bukhari:1892 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) observed the fast on the 10th of Muharram ('Ashura), and ordered (Muslims) to fast on 
that day, but when the fasting of the month of Ramadan was prescribed, the fasting of the 'Ashura' was 
abandoned. `Abdullah did not use to fast on that day unless it coincided with his routine fasting by 
chance.
Bukhari:1893 Narrated `Aisha:(The tribe of) Quraish used to fast on the day of Ashura' in the Pre-Islamic period, and then Allah's 
Apostle ordered (Muslims) to fast on it till the fasting in the month of Ramadan was prescribed; 
whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who wants to fast (on 'Ashura') may fast, and he who does not want 
to fast may not fast."
Bukhari:1894 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fasting is a shield (or a screen or a shelter). So, the person observing fasting 
should avoid sexual relation with his wife and should not behave foolishly and impudently, and if 
somebody fights with him or abuses him, he should tell him twice, 'I am fasting." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 
"By Him in Whose Hands my soul is, the smell coming out from the mouth of a fasting person is 
better in the sight of Allah than the smell of musk. (Allah says about the fasting person), 'He has left 
his food, drink and desires for My sake. The fast is for Me. So I will reward (the fasting person) for it 
and the reward of good deeds is multiplied ten times."
Bukhari:1895 Narrated Abu Wail from Hudhaifa:`Umar asked the people, "Who remembers the narration of the Prophet (ﷺ) about the affliction?" Hudhaifa 
said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'The affliction of a person in his property, family and neighbors is 
expiated by his prayers, fasting, and giving in charity." `Umar said, "I do not ask about that, but I ask 
about those afflictions which will spread like the waves of the sea." Hudhaifa replied, "There is a 
closed gate in front of those afflictions." `Umar asked, "Will that gate be opened or broken?" He 
replied, "It will be broken." `Umar said, "Then the gate will not be closed again till the Day of 
Resurrection." We said to Masruq, "Would you ask Hudhaifa whether `Umar knew what that gate 
symbolized?" He asked him and he replied "He (`Umar) knew it as one knows that there will be night 
before tomorrow, morning.
Bukhari:1896 Narrated Sahl:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a gate in Paradise called Ar-Raiyan, and those who observe fasts will enter 
through it on the Day of Resurrection and none except them will enter through it. It will be said, 
'Where are those who used to observe fasts?' They will get up, and none except them will enter 
through it. After their entry the gate will be closed and nobody will enter through it."
Bukhari:1897 'Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever gives two kinds (of things or property) in charity for Allah's Cause, 
will be called from the gates of Paradise and will be addressed, 'O slaves of Allah! Here is prosperity.' 
So, whoever was amongst the people who used to offer their prayers, will be called from the gate of 
the prayer; and whoever was amongst the people who used to participate in Jihad, will be called from 
the gate of Jihad; and whoever was amongst those who used to observe fasts, will be called from the 
gate of Ar-Raiyan; whoever was amongst those who used to give in charity, will be called from the 
gate of charity." Abu Bakr said, "Let my parents be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! No distress 
or need will befall him who will be called from those gates. Will there be any one who will be called 
from all these gates?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Yes, and I hope you will be one of them."
Bukhari:1898 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Ramadan begins, the gates of Paradise are opened."
Bukhari:1899 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the month of Ramadan starts, the gates of the heaven are opened and the 
gates of Hell are closed and the devils are chained."
Bukhari:1900 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "When you see the crescent (of the month of Ramadan), start fasting, 
and when you see the crescent (of the month of Shawwal), stop fasting; and if the sky is overcast (and 
you can't see it) then regard the month of Ramadan as of 30 days."
Bukhari:1901 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever established prayers on the night of Qadr out of sincere faith and hoping 
for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be forgiven; and whoever fasts in the month of 
Ramadan out of sincere faith, and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be 
forgiven."
Bukhari:1902 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was the most generous amongst the people, and he used to be more so in the month of 
Ramadan when Gabriel visited him, and Gabriel used to meet him on every night of Ramadan till the 
end of the month. The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Holy Qur'an to Gabriel, and when Gabriel met him, 
he used to be more generous than a fast wind (which causes rain and welfare).
Bukhari:1903 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not give up forged speech and evil actions, Allah is not in need of 
his leaving his food and drink (i.e. Allah will not accept his fasting.)"
Bukhari:1904 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'All the deeds of Adam's sons (people) are for them, except fasting 
which is for Me, and I will give the reward for it.' Fasting is a shield or protection from the fire and 
from committing sins. If one of you is fasting, he should avoid sexual relation with his wife and 
quarreling, and if somebody should fight or quarrel with him, he should say, 'I am fasting.' By Him in 
Whose Hands my soul is' The unpleasant smell coming out from the mouth of a fasting person is 
better in the sight of Allah than the smell of musk. There are two pleasures for the fasting person, one 
at the time of breaking his fast, and the other at the time when he will meet his Lord; then he will be 
pleased because of his fasting."
Bukhari:1905 Narrated 'Alqama:While I was walking with `Abdullah he said, "We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, 
'He who can afford to marry should marry, because it will help him refrain from looking at other 
women, and save his private parts from committing illegal sexual relation; and he who cannot afford 
to marry is advised to fast, as fasting will diminish his sexual power."
Bukhari:1906 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned Ramadan and said, "Do not fast unless you see the crescent (of Ramadan), 
and do not give up fasting till you see the crescent (of Shawwal), but if the sky is overcast (if you 
cannot see it), then act on estimation (i.e. count Sha'ban as 30 days).
Bukhari:1907 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The month (can be) 29 nights (i.e. days), and do not fast till you see the moon, 
and if the sky is overcast, then complete Sha'ban as thirty days."
Bukhari:1908 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The month is like this and this," (at the same time he showed the fingers of both his 
hands thrice) and left out one thumb on the third time.
Bukhari:1909 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) or Abul-Qasim said, "Start fasting on seeing the crescent (of Ramadan), and give up 
fasting on seeing the crescent (of Shawwal), and if the sky is overcast (and you cannot see it), 
complete thirty days of Sha'ban."
Bukhari:1910 Narrated Um Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) vowed to keep aloof from his wives for a period of one month, and after the completion 
of 29 days he went either in the morning or in the afternoon to his wives. Someone said to him "You 
vowed that you would not go to your wives for one month." He replied, "The month is of 29 days."
Bukhari:1911 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) vowed to keep aloof from his wives for one month, and he had dislocation of his leg. 
So, he stayed in a Mashruba for 29 nights and then came down. Some people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
You vowed to stay aloof for one month," He replied, "The month is of 29 days."
Bukhari:1912 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The two months of `Id i.e. Ramadan and Dhul-Hijja, do not decrease (in 
superiority).
Bukhari:1913 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are an illiterate nation; we neither write, nor know accounts. The month is like 
this and this, i.e. sometimes of 29 days and sometimes of thirty days."
Bukhari:1914 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should fast a day or two before the month of Ramadan unless he has 
the habit of fasting (Nawafil) (and if his fasting coincides with that day) then he can fast that day."
Bukhari:1915 Narrated Al-Bara:It was the custom among the companions of Muhammad that if any of them was fasting and the food 
was presented (for breaking his fast), but he slept before eating, he would not eat that night and the 
following day till sunset. 
Qais bin Sirma-al-Ansari was fasting and came to his wife at the time of Iftar (breaking one's fast) and 
asked her whether she had anything to eat. She replied, "No, but I would go and bring some for you." 
He used to do hard work during the day, so he was overwhelmed by sleep and slept. When his wife 
came and saw him, she said, "Disappointment for you." When it was midday on the following day, he 
fainted and the Prophet (ﷺ) was informed about the whole matter and the following verses were revealed: 
"You are permitted To go to your wives (for sexual relation) At the night of fasting." So, they were 
overjoyed by it. And then Allah also revealed: "And eat and drink Until the white thread Of dawn 
appears to you Distinct from the black thread (of the night)." (2.187)
Bukhari:1916 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:When the above verses were revealed: 'Until the white thread appears to you, distinct from the black 
thread,' I took two (hair) strings, one black and the other white, and kept them under my pillow and 
went on looking at them throughout the night but could not make anything out of it. So, the next 
morning I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him the whole story. He explained to me, "That verse 
means the darkness of the night and the whiteness of the dawn."
Bukhari:1917 Narrated Sahl bin Saud:When the following verses were revealed: 'Eat and drink until the white thread appears to you, distinct 
from the black thread' and of dawn was not revealed, some people who intended to fast, tied black and 
white threads to their legs and went on eating till they differentiated between the two. Allah then 
revealed the words, 'of dawn', and it became clear that meant night and day.
Bukhari:1918 Narrated `Aisha:Bilal used to pronounce the Adhan at night, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? said, "Carry on taking your meals (eat 
and drink) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan, for he does not pronounce it till it is dawn.
Bukhari:1919 Narrated `Aisha:Bilal used to pronounce the Adhan at night, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? said, "Carry on taking your meals (eat 
and drink) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan, for he does not pronounce it till it is dawn.
Bukhari:1920 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I used to take my Suhur meals with my family and then hurry up for presenting myself for the (Fajr) 
prayer with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:1921 Narrated Anas:Zaid bin Thabit said, "We took the Suhur with the Prophet (ﷺ) . Then he stood for the prayer." I asked, 
"What was the interval between the Suhur and the Adhan?" He replied, "The interval was sufficient to 
recite fifty verses of the Qur'an."
Bukhari:1922 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) fasted for days continuously; the people also did the same but it was difficult for them. 
So, the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade them (to fast continuously for more than one day). They slid, "But you fast 
without break (no food was taken in the evening or in the morning)." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I am not 
like you, for I am provided with food and drink (by Allah).
Bukhari:1923 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take Suhur as there is a blessing in it."
Bukhari:1924 Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered a person on 'Ashura' (the tenth of Muharram) to announce, "Whoever has 
eaten, should not eat any more, but fast, and who has not eaten should not eat, but complete his fast 
(till the end of the day).
Bukhari:1925 Narrated `Aisha and Um Salama:At times Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up in the morning in the state of Janaba after having sexual 
relations with his wives. He would then take a bath and fast.
Bukhari:1926 Narrated `Aisha and Um Salama:At times Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up in the morning in the state of Janaba after having sexual 
relations with his wives. He would then take a bath and fast.
Bukhari:1927 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to kiss and embrace (his wives) while he was fasting, and he had more power to 
control his desires than any of you. Said Jabir, "The person who gets discharge after casting a look (on 
his wife) should complete his fast."
Bukhari:1928 Narrated Hisham's father:Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to kiss some of his wives while he was fasting," and then she 
smiled.
Bukhari:1929 Narrated Zainab:(daughter of Um Salama) that her mother said, "While I was (lying) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) underneath 
a woolen sheet, I got the menstruation, and then slipped away and put on the clothes (which I used to 
wear) in menses. He asked, "What is the matter? Did you get your menses?" I replied in the 
affirmative and then entered underneath that woolen sheet. I and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to take a bath 
from one water pot and he used to kiss me while he was fasting."
Bukhari:1930 Narrated `Aisha:(At times) in Ramadan the Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath in the morning not because of a wet dream and 
would continue his fast.
Bukhari:1931 Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Abdur-Rahman:My father and I went to `Aisha and she said, "I testify that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at times used to get up in 
the morning in a state of Janaba from sexual intercourse, not from a wet dream and then he would fast 
that day." Then he went to Um Salama and she also narrated a similar thing.
Bukhari:1932 Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Abdur-Rahman:My father and I went to `Aisha and she said, "I testify that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at times used to get up in 
the morning in a state of Janaba from sexual intercourse, not from a wet dream and then he would fast 
that day." Then he went to Um Salama and she also narrated a similar thing.
Bukhari:1933 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody eats or drinks forgetfully then he should complete his fast, for what he 
has eaten or drunk, has been given to him by Allah."
Bukhari:1934 Narrated Humran:I saw `Uthman performing ablution; he washed his hands thrice, rinsed his mouth and then washed his 
nose, by putting water in it and then blowing it out, and washed his face thrice, and then washed his 
right forearm up to the elbow thrice, and then the left-forearm up to the elbow thrice, then smeared his 
head with water, washed his right foot thrice, and then his left foot thrice and said, "I saw Allah's 
Apostle performing ablution similar to my present ablution, and then he said, 'Whoever performs 
ablution like my present ablution and then offers two rak`at in which he does not think of worldly 
things, all his previous sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:1935 Narrated `Aisha:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said that he had been burnt (ruined). The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him what was 
the matter. He replied, "I had sexual intercourse with my wife in Ramadan (while I was fasting)." 
Then a basket full of dates was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he asked, "Where is the burnt (ruined) 
man?" He replied, "I am present." The Prophet (ﷺ) told him to give that basket in charity (as expiation).
Bukhari:1936 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) a man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have been ruined." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked what was the matter with him. He replied "I had sexual intercourse with my 
wife while I was fasting." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked him, "Can you afford to manumit a slave?" He replied 
in the negative. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked him, "Can you fast for two successive months?" He replied in 
the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Can you afford to feed sixty poor persons?" He replied in the 
negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept silent and while we were in that state, a big basket full of dates was 
brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) . He asked, "Where is the questioner?" He replied, "I (am here)." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said (to him), "Take this (basket of dates) and give it in charity." The man said, "Should I give it to a 
person poorer than I? By Allah; there is no family between its (i.e. Medina's) two mountains who are 
poorer than I." The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled till his premolar teeth became visible and then said, 'Feed your 
family with it."
Bukhari:1937 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I had sexual intercourse with my wife on Ramadan (while 
fasting)." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Can you afford to manumit a slave?" He replied in the negative. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Can you fast for two successive months?" He replied in the negative. He 
asked him, "Can you afford to feed sixty poor persons?" He replied in the negative. (Abu Huraira 
added): Then a basket full of dates was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said (to that man), "Feed (poor 
people) with this by way of atonement." He said, "(Should I feed it) to poorer people than we? There 
is no poorer house than ours between its (Medina's) mountains." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then feed your 
family with it."
Bukhari:1938 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was in the state of lhram, and also while he was observing a fast.
Bukhari:1939 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was fasting.
Bukhari:1940 Narrated Thabit Al-Bunani:Anas bin Malik was asked whether they disliked the cupping for a fasting person. He replied in the 
negative and said, "Only if it causes weakness."
Bukhari:1941 Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on a journey. He said to a man, "Get down and mix Sawiq 
(powdered barley) with water for me." The man said, "The sun (has not set yet), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) again said to him, "Get down and mix Sawiq with water for me." The man again said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The sun!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him (for the third time) "Get down and mix Sawiq with 
water for me." The man dismounted and mixed Sawiq with water for him. The Prophet (ﷺ) drank it and 
then beckoned with his hand (towards the East) and said, "When you see the night falling from this 
side, then a fasting person should break his fast."
Bukhari:1942 Narrated `Aisha:Hamza bin `Amr Al-Aslami said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I fast continuously."
Bukhari:1943 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Hamza bin `Amr Al-Aslami asked the Prophet, "Should I fast while 
traveling?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "You may fast if you wish, and you may not fast if you wish."
Bukhari:1944 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for Mecca in Ramadan and he fasted, and when he reached Al-Kadid, he broke 
his fast and the people (with him) broke their fast too. (Abu `Abdullah said, "Al-Kadid is a land 
covered with water between Usfan and Qudaid.")
Bukhari:1945 Narrated Abu Ad-Darda:We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of his journeys on a very hot day, and it was so hot that one 
had to put his hand over his head because of the severity of heat. None of us was fasting except the 
Prophet and Ibn Rawaha.
Bukhari:1946 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on a journey and saw a crowd of people, and a man was being shaded (by them). 
He asked, "What is the matter?" They said, "He (the man) is fasting." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not 
righteousness that you fast on a journey."
Bukhari:1947 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to travel with the Prophet (ﷺ) and neither did the fasting persons criticize those who were not 
fasting, nor did those who were not fasting criticize the fasting ones.
Bukhari:1948 Narrated Tawus:Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out from Medina to Mecca and he fasted till he reached 'Usfan, 
where he asked for water and raised his hand to let the people see him, and then broke the fast, and did 
not fast after that till he reached Mecca, and that happened in Ramadan." Ibn `Abbas used to say, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (sometimes) fasted and (sometimes) did not fast during the journeys so whoever 
wished to fast could fast, and whoever wished not to fast, could do so."
Bukhari:1949 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar recited the verse: "They had a choice either to fast or to feed a poor person for every day, 
and said that the order of this Verse was canceled.
Bukhari:1950 Narrated `Aisha:Sometimes I missed some days of Ramadan, but could not fast in lieu of them except in the month of 
Sha'ban." Said Yahya, a sub-narrator, "She used to be busy serving the Prophet (ﷺ) ."
Bukhari:1951 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't it true that a woman does not pray and does not fast on menstruating? And 
that is the defect (a loss) in her religion."
Bukhari:1952 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever died and he ought to have fasted (the missed days of Ramadan) then 
his guardians must fast on his behalf."
Bukhari:1953 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My mother died and she ought to have 
fasted one month (for her missed Ramadan). Shall I fast on her behalf?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the 
affirmative and said, "Allah's debts have more right to be paid." In another narration a woman is 
reported to have said, "My sister died..." 
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A woman said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "My mother died and she had vowed to fast but 
she didn't fast." In another narration Ibn `Abbas is reported to have said, "A woman said to the 
Prophet, "My mother died while she ought to have fasted for fifteen days."
Bukhari:1954 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When night falls from this side and the day vanishes from this side and the sun 
sets, then the fasting person should break his fast."
Bukhari:1955 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and he was fasting, and when the sun set, he 
addressed somebody, "O so-and-so, get up and mix Sawiq with water for us." He replied, "O Allah's 
Apostle! (Will you wait) till it is evening?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Get down and mix Sawiq with water 
for us." He replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (If you wait) till it is evening." The Prophet (ﷺ) said again, "Get 
down and mix Sawiq with water for us." He replied, "It is still daytime."(1) The Prophet (ﷺ) said again, 
"Get down and mix Sawiq with water for us." He got down and mixed Sawiq for them. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
drank it and then said, "When you see night falling from this side, the fasting person should break his 
fast."
Bukhari:1956 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:We were traveling with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he was fasting, and when the sun set, he said to 
(someone), "Get down and mix Sawiq with water for us." He replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (Will you 
wait) till it is evening?" The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, "Get down and mix Sawiq with water for us." He 
replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is still daytime." The Prophet (ﷺ) said again, "Get down and mix Sawiq 
with water for us." So, he got down and carried out that order. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "When you see 
night falling from this side, the fasting person should break his fast," and he beckoned with his finger 
towards the east.
Bukhari:1957 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will remain on the right path as long as they hasten the breaking of 
the fast."
Bukhari:1958 Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and he observed the fast till evening. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to a man, 
"Get down and mix Sawiq with water for me." He replied, "Will you wait till it is evening?" The 
Prophet said, "Get down and mix Sawiq with water for me; when you see night falling from this side, 
the fasting person should break his fast."
Bukhari:1959 Narrated Abu Usama from Hisham bin 'Urwa from Fatima:Asma bint Abi Bakr said, "We broke our fast during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a cloudy day and 
then the sun appeared." Hisham was asked, "Were they ordered to fast in lieu of that day?" He replied, 
"It had to be made up for." Ma`mar said, "I heard Hisham saying, "I don't know whether they fasted in 
lieu of that day or not."
Bukhari:1960 Narrated Ar-Rubi' bint Mu'awadh:"The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a messenger to the village of the Ansar in the morning of the day of 'Ashura' (10th 
of Muharram) to announce: 'Whoever has eaten something should not eat but complete the fast, and 
whoever is observing the fast should complete it.' "She further said, "Since then we used to fast on that 
day regularly and also make our boys fast. We used to make toys of wool for the boys and if anyone 
of them cried for, he was given those toys till it was the time of the breaking of the fast."
Bukhari:1961 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not practice Al-Wisal (fasting continuously without breaking one's fast in the 
evening or eating before the following dawn)." The people said to the Prophet, "But you practice Al- 
Wisal?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I am not like any of you, for I am given food and drink (by Allah) 
during the night."
Bukhari:1962 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal. The people said (to him), "But you practice it?" He said, "I am not 
like you, for I am given food and drink by Allah."
Bukhari:1963 'Narrated Abu Sa`id:That he had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not fast continuously (practice Al-Wisal), and if you intend 
to lengthen your fast, then carry it on only till the Suhur (before the following dawn)." The people said 
to him, "But you practice (Al-Wisal), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He replied, "I am not similar to you, for 
during my sleep I have One Who makes me eat and drink."
Bukhari:1964 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal out of mercy to them. They said to him, "But you practice Al- 
Wisal?" He said, "I am not similar to you, for my Lord gives me food and drink. "
Bukhari:1965 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal in fasting. So, one of the Muslims said to him, "But you practice Al- 
Wisal. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Who amongst you is similar to me? I am given food 
and drink during my sleep by my Lord." So, when the people refused to stop Al-Wisal (fasting 
continuously), the Prophet (ﷺ) fasted day and night continuously along with them for a day and then 
another day and then they saw the crescent moon (of the month of Shawwal). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to 
them (angrily), "If It (the crescent) had not appeared, I would have made you fast for a longer period." 
That was as a punishment for them when they refused to stop (practicing Al-Wisal).
Bukhari:1966 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said twice, "(O you people) Be cautious! Do not practice Al-Wisal." The people said to 
him, "But you practice Al-Wisal?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "My Lord gives me food and drink during my 
sleep. Do that much of deeds which is within your ability."
Bukhari:1967 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not fast continuously day and night (practice Al-Wisal) and if anyone of you 
intends to fast continuously day and night, he should continue till the Suhur time." They said, "But 
you practice Al-Wisal, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am not similar to you;. during my 
sleep I have One Who makes me eat and drink."
Bukhari:1968 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) made a bond of brotherhood between Salman and Abu Ad-Darda.' Salman paid a visit to 
Abu Ad-Darda' and found Um Ad-Darda' dressed in shabby clothes and asked her why she was in that 
state. She replied, "Your brother Abu Ad-Darda' is not interested in (the luxuries of) this world." In 
the meantime Abu Ad-Darda' came and prepared a meal for Salman. Salman requested Abu Ad- 
Darda' to eat (with him), but Abu Ad-Darda' said, "I am fasting." Salman said, "I am not going to eat 
unless you eat." So, Abu Ad-Darda' ate (with Salman). When it was night and (a part of the night 
passed), Abu Ad-Darda' got up (to offer the night prayer), but Salman told him to sleep and Abu Ad- 
Darda' slept. After sometime Abu Ad-Darda' again got up but Salman told him to sleep. When it was 
the last hours of the night, Salman told him to get up then, and both of them offered the prayer. 
Salman told Abu Ad-Darda', "Your Lord has a right on you, your soul has a right on you, and your 
family has a right on you; so you should give the rights of all those who has a right on you." Abu Ad- 
Darda' came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and narrated the whole story. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Salman has spoken the 
truth."
Bukhari:1969 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to fast till one would say that he would never stop fasting, and he would abandon 
fasting till one would say that he would never fast. I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fasting for a whole 
month except the month of Ramadan, and did not see him fasting in any month more than in the 
month of Sha'ban.
Bukhari:1970 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) never fasted in any month more than in the month of Sha'ban. He used to say, "Do those 
deeds which you can do easily, as Allah will not get tired (of giving rewards) till you get bored and 
tired (of performing religious deeds)." The most beloved prayer to the Prophet (ﷺ) was the one that was 
done regularly (throughout the life) even if it were little. And whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) offered a prayer 
he used to offer it regularly .
Bukhari:1971 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) never fasted a full month except the month of Ramadan, and he used to fast till one could 
say, "By Allah, he will never stop fasting," and he would abandon fasting till one would say, "By 
Allah, he will never fast."
Bukhari:1972 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to leave fasting in a certain month till we thought that he would not fast in that 
month, and he used to fast in another month till we thought he would not stop fasting at all in that 
month. And if one wanted to see him praying at night, one could see him (in that condition), and if 
one wanted to see him sleeping at night, one could see him (in that condition) too.
Bukhari:1973 Narrated Humaid:I asked Anas about the fasting of the Prophet. He said "Whenever I liked to see the Prophet (ﷺ) fasting in 
any month, I could see that, and whenever I liked to see him not fasting, I could see that too, and if I 
liked to see him praying in any night, I could see that, and if I liked to see him sleeping, I could see 
that, too." Anas further said, "I never touched silk or velvet softer than the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
never smelled musk or perfumed smoke more pleasant than the smell of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:1974 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:"Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me," and then he narrated the whole narration, i.e. your guest has a 
right on you, and your wife has a right on you. I then asked about the fasting of David. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied, "Half of the year," (i.e. he used to fast on every alternate day).
Bukhari:1975 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "O `Abdullah! Have I not been informed that you fast during the day and 
offer prayers all the night." `Abdullah replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't do 
that; fast for few days and then give it up for few days, offer prayers and also sleep at night, as your 
body has a right on you, and your wife has a right on you, and your guest has a right on you. And it is 
sufficient for you to fast three days in a month, as the reward of a good deed is multiplied ten times, so 
it will be like fasting throughout the year." I insisted (on fasting) and so I was given a hard instruction. 
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have power." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fast like the fasting of the Prophet (ﷺ) David 
and do not fast more than that." I said, "How was the fasting of the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah, David?" He said, 
"Half of the year," (i.e. he used to fast on every alternate day). 
Afterwards when `Abdullah became old, he used to say, "It would have been better for me if I had 
accepted the permission of the Prophet (which he gave me i.e. to fast only three days a month).
Bukhari:1976 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed that I had taken an oath to fast daily and to pray (every night) all the 
night throughout my life (so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and asked whether it was correct): I replied, 
"Let my parents be sacrificed for you! I said so." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You can not do that. So, fast for 
few days and give it up for few days, offer Salat (prayer) and sleep. Fast three days a month as the reward of good 
deeds is multiplied ten times and that will be equal to one year of fasting." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Fast one day and give up fasting for two days." I replied, "I can do better 
than that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Fast one day and give up fasting for a day and that is the fasting 
of Prophet David and that is the best fasting." I said, "I have the power to fast better (more) than that." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no better fasting than that."
Bukhari:1977 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The news of my daily fasting and praying every night throughout the night reached the Prophet. So he 
sent for me or I met him, and he said, "I have been informed that you fast everyday and pray every 
night (all the night). Fast (for some days) and give up fasting (for some days); pray and sleep, for your 
eyes have a right on you, and your body and your family (i.e. wife) have a right on you." I replied, "I 
have more power than that (fasting)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then fast like the fasts of (the Prophet) 
David". I said, "How?" He replied, "He used to fast on alternate days, and he used not to flee on 
meeting the enemy." I said, "From where can I get that chance?" (`Ata' said, "I do not know how the 
expression of fasting daily throughout the life occurred.") So, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, twice, "Whoever fasts 
daily throughout his life is just as the one who does not fast at all."
Bukhari:1978 Narrated Mujahid from `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to `Abdullah), "Fast three days a month." `Abdullah said, (to the Prophet) "I am 
able to fast more than that." They kept on arguing on this matter till the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fast on 
alternate days, and recite the whole Qur'an once a month." `Abdullah said, "I can recite more (in a 
month)," and the argument went on till the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Recite the Qur'an once each three days." 
(i.e. you must not recite the whole Qur'an in less than three days).
Bukhari:1979 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "You fast daily all the year and pray every night all the night?" I replied in the 
affirmative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you keep on doing this, your eyes will become weak and your body 
will get tired. He who fasts all the year is as he who did not fast at all. The fasting of three days (a 
month) will be equal to the fasting of the whole year." I replied, "I have the power for more than this." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then fast like the fasting of David who used to fast on alternate days and would 
never flee from the battle field, on meeting the enemy."
Bukhari:1980 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed about my fasts, and he came to me and I spread for him a leather 
cushion stuffed with palm fires, but he sat on the ground and the cushion remained between me and 
him, and then he said, "Isn't it sufficient for you to fast three days a month?" I replied, "O Allah's 
Apostle! (I can fast more)." He said, "Five?" I replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more)." He said, 
"Seven?" I replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more)." He said, "Nine (days per month)?" I 
replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more)" He said, "Eleven (days per month)?" And then the 
Prophet said, "There is no fast superior to that of the Prophet (ﷺ) David it was for half of the year. So, fast 
on alternate days."
Bukhari:1981 Narrated Abu Huraira:My friend (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) advised me to observe three things: 
(1) to fast three days a month; 
(2) to pray two rak`at of Duha prayer (forenoon prayer); and 
(3) to pray witr before sleeping.
Bukhari:1982 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) paid a visit to Um-Sulaim and she placed before him dates and ghee. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Replace the ghee and dates in their respective containers for I am fasting." Then he stood somewhere 
in her house and offered an optional prayer and then he invoked good on Um-Sulaim and her family. 
Then Um-Sulaim said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have a special request (today)." He said, "What is it?" 
She replied, "(Please invoke for) your servant Anas." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not leave anything good 
in the world or the Hereafter which he did not invoke (Allah to bestow) on me and said, "O Allah! 
Give him (i.e. Anas) property and children and bless him." Thus I am one of the richest among the 
Ansar and my daughter Umaina told me that when Al-Hajjaj came to Basra, more than 120 of my 
offspring had been buried.
Bukhari:1983 Narrated Mutarrif from `Imran Ibn Husain:That the Prophet (ﷺ) asked him (Imran) or asked a man and `Imran was listening, "O Abu so-and-so! 
Have you fasted the last days of this month?" (The narrator thought that he said, "the month of 
Ramadan"). The man replied, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "When you finish 
your fasting (of Ramadan) fast two days (in Shawwal)." Through another series of narrators `Imran 
said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, '(Have you fasted) the last days of Sha'ban?"
Bukhari:1984 Narrated Muhammad bin `Abbas:I asked Jabir "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) forbid fasting on Fridays?" He replied, "Yes." (Other narrators added, 
"If he intends to fast only that day.")
Bukhari:1985 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "None of you should fast on Friday unless he fasts a day before or after it."
Bukhari:1986 Narrated Abu Aiyub from Juwairiya bint Al-Harith:The Prophet (ﷺ) visited her (Juwairiya) on a Friday and she was fasting. He asked her, "Did you fast 
yesterday?" She said, "No." He said, "Do you intend to fast tomorrow?" She said, "No." He said, 
"Then break your fast." Through another series of narrators, Abu Aiyub is reported to have said, "He 
ordered her and she broke her fast."
Bukhari:1987 Narrated Alqama:I asked `Aisha "Did Allah s Apostle, use to choose some special days (for fasting)?" She replied, "No, 
but he used to be regular (constant) (in his service of worshipping). Who amongst you can endure 
what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to endure?"
Bukhari:1988 Narrated Um Al-Fadl bint Al-Harith:"While the people were with me on the day of `Arafat they differed as to whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was 
fasting or not; some said that he was fasting while others said that he was not fasting. So, I sent to him 
a bowl full of milk while he was riding over his camel and he drank it."
Bukhari:1989 Narrated Maimuna:The people doubted whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was fasting on the day of `Arafat or not, so I sent milk while 
he was standing at `Arafat, he drank it and the people were looking at him.
Bukhari:1990 Narrated Abu `Ubaid:(the slave of Ibn Azhar) I witnessed the `Id with `Umar bin Al-Khattab who said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has 
forbidden people to fast on the day on which you break fasting (the fasts of Ramadan) and the day on 
which you eat the meat of your sacrifices (the first day of `Id ul Fitr and `Id ul-Adha).
Bukhari:1991 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the fasting of `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha (two feast days) and also the wearing of 
As-Samma' (a single garment covering the whole body), and sitting with one's leg drawn up while 
being wrapped in one garment. He also forbade the prayers after the Fajr (morning) and the `Asr 
(afternoon) prayers.
Bukhari:1992 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the fasting of `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha (two feast days) and also the wearing of 
As-Samma' (a single garment covering the whole body), and sitting with one's leg drawn up while 
being wrapped in one garment. He also forbade the prayers after the Fajr (morning) and the `Asr 
(afternoon) prayers.
Bukhari:1993 Narrated Abu Huraira:Two fasts and two kinds of sale are forbidden: fasting on the day of `Id ul Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha and the 
kinds of sale called Mulamasa and Munabadha. (These two kinds of sale used to be practiced in the 
days of Pre-Islamic period of ignorance; Mulamasa means when you touch something displayed for 
sale you have to buy it; Munabadha means when the seller throws something to you, you have to buy 
it.)
Bukhari:1994 Narrated Ziyad bin Jubair:A man went to Ibn `Umar I. and said, "A man vowed to fast one day (the sub-narrator thinks that he 
said that the day was Monday), and that day happened to be `Id day." Ibn `Umar said, "Allah orders 
vows to be fulfilled and the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the fasting on this day (i.e. Id).
Bukhari:1995 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:(who fought in twelve Ghazawat in the company of the Prophet). I heard four things from the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and they won my admiration. He said; 
-1. "No lady should travel on a journey of two days except with her husband or a Dhi-Mahram; 
-2. "No fasting is permissible on the two days of Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha; 
-3. "No prayer (may be offered) after the morning compulsory prayer until the sun rises; and no prayer 
after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets; 
-4. "One should travel only for visiting three Masjid (Mosques): Masjid-al-Haram (Mecca), Masjid-al- 
Aqsa (Jerusalem), and this (my) Mosque (at Medina).
Bukhari:1996 Narrated Yahya:Hisham said, "My father said that 'Aishah (ra) used to observe Saum (fast) on the days of Mina." His (i.e., Hisham's) father also used to observe Saum on those days.
Bukhari:1997 Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Umar:Nobody was allowed to fast on the days of Tashriq except those who could not afford the Hadi 
(Sacrifice).
Bukhari:1998 Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Umar:Nobody was allowed to fast on the days of Tashriq except those who could not afford the Hadi 
(Sacrifice).
Bukhari:1999 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Fasting for those who perform ,Hajj-at-Tamattu` (in lieu of the Hadi which they cannot afford) may be 
performed up to the day of `Arafat. And if one does not get a Hadi and has not fasted (before the `Id) 
then one should fast of the days of Mina. (11, 12 and 13th of Dhul Hajja).
Bukhari:2000 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever wishes may fast on the day of 'Ashura'."
