Bukhari:601 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed one of the `Isha' prayer in his last days and after finishing it with Taslim, he stood 
up and said, "Do you realize (the importance of) this night? Nobody present on the 
surface of the earth tonight would be living after the completion of one hundred years from this 
night." 
The people made a mistake in grasping the meaning of this statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and they 
indulged in those things which are said about these narrators (i.e. some said that the Day of 
Resurrection will be established after 100 years etc.) But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody present on the 
surface of earth tonight would be living after the completion of 100 years from this night"; he meant 
"When that century (people of that century) would pass away."
Bukhari:602 Narrated Abu `Uthman:`Abdur Rahman bin Abi Bakr said, "The Suffa Companions were poor people and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
'Whoever has food for two persons should take a third one from them (Suffa companions). And 
whosoever has food for four persons he should take one or two from them' Abu Bakr took three men 
and the Prophet (ﷺ) took ten of them." 
`Abdur Rahman added, my father my mother and I were there (in the house). (The sub-narrator is in 
doubt whether `Abdur Rahman also said, 'My wife and our servant who was common for both my 
house and Abu Bakr's house). Abu Bakr took his supper with the Prophet (ﷺ) and remained there till the 
`Isha' prayer was offered. Abu Bakr went back and stayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) till the Prophet (ﷺ) took his 
meal and then Abu Bakr returned to his house after a long portion of the night had passed. Abu Bakr's 
wife said, 'What detained you from your guests (or guest)?' He said, 'Have you not served them yet?' 
She said, 'They refused to eat until you come. The food was served for them but they refused." `Abdur 
Rahman added, "I went away and hid myself (being afraid of Abu Bakr) and in the meantime he (Abu 
Bakr) called me, 'O Ghunthar (a harsh word)!' and also called me bad names and abused me and then 
said (to his family), 'Eat. No welcome for you.' Then (the supper was served). Abu Bakr took an oath 
that he would not eat that food. The narrator added: By Allah, whenever any one of us (myself and the 
guests of Suffa companions) took anything from the food, it increased from underneath. We all ate to 
our fill and the food was more than it was before its serving. 
Abu Bakr looked at it (the food) and found it as it was before serving or even more than that. He 
addressed his wife (saying) 'O the sister of Bani Firas! What is this?' She said, 'O the pleasure of my 
eyes! The food is now three times more than it was before.' Abu Bakr ate from it, and said, 'That 
(oath) was from Satan' meaning his oath (not to eat). Then he again took a morsel (mouthful) from it 
and then took the rest of it to the Prophet. So that meal was with the Prophet. There was a treaty 
between us and some people, and when the period of that treaty had elapsed the Prophet (ﷺ) divided us 
into twelve (groups) (the Prophet's companions) each being headed by a man. Allah knows how many 
men were under the command of each (leader). So all of them (12 groups of men) ate of that meal."
Bukhari:603 Narrated Anas:The people mentioned the fire and the bell (they suggested those as signals to indicate the starting of 
prayers), and by that they mentioned the Jews and the Christians. Then Bilal was ordered to 
pronounce Adhan for the prayer by saying its wordings twice, and for the Iqama (the call for the 
actual standing for the prayers in rows) by saying its wordings once. (Iqama is pronounced when the 
people are ready for the prayer).
Bukhari:604 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Muslims arrived at Medina, they used to assemble for the prayer, and used to guess the time 
for it. During those days, the practice of Adhan for the prayers had not been introduced yet. Once they 
discussed this problem regarding the call for prayer. Some people suggested the use of a bell like the 
Christians, others proposed a trumpet like the horn used by the Jews, but `Umar was the first to 
suggest that a man should call (the people) for the prayer; so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered Bilal to get up 
and pronounce the Adhan for prayers.
Bukhari:605 Narrated Anas:Bilal was ordered to repeat the wording of the Adhan for prayers twice, and to pronounce the wording 
of the Iqama once except "Qad-qamat-is-salat".
Bukhari:606 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the number of Muslims increased they discussed the question as to how to know the time for 
the prayer by some familiar means. Some suggested that a fire be lit (at the time of the prayer) and 
others put forward the proposal to ring the bell. Bilal was ordered to pronounce the wording of Adhan 
twice and of the Iqama once only.
Bukhari:607 Narrated Abu Qilaba:Anas said, "Bilal was ordered to pronounce the wording of Adhan twice and of Iqama once only." The 
sub narrator Isma`il said, "I mentioned that to Aiyub and he added (to that), "Except Iqama (i.e. Qadqamat- 
is-salat which should be said twice).
Bukhari:608 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Adhan is pronounced Satan takes to his heels and passes wind with 
noise during his flight in order not to hear the Adhan. When the Adhan is completed he comes back 
and again takes to his heels when the Iqama is pronounced and after its completion he returns again 
till he whispers into the heart of the person (to divert his attention from his prayer) and makes him 
remember things which he does not recall to his mind before the prayer and that causes him to forget 
how much he has prayed."
Bukhari:609 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman:Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri told my father, "I see you liking sheep and the wilderness. So whenever you are 
with your sheep or in the wilderness and you want to pronounce Adhan for the prayer raise your voice 
in doing so, for whoever hears the Adhan, whether a human being, a jinn or any other creature, will be 
a witness for you on the Day of Resurrection." Abu Sa`id added, "I heard it (this narration) from 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:610 Narrated Humaid:Anas bin Malik said, "Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went out with us to fight (in Allah's cause) against any 
nation, he never allowed us to attack till morning and he would wait and see: if he heard Adhan he 
would postpone the attack and if he did not hear Adhan he would attack them." Anas added, "We 
reached Khaibar at night and in the morning when he did not hear the Adhan for the prayer, he (the 
Prophet ) rode and I rode behind Abi Talha and my foot was touching that of the Prophet. 
The inhabitants of Khaibar came out with their baskets and spades and when they saw the Prophet (ﷺ) 
they shouted 'Muhammad! By Allah, Muhammad and his army.' When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw them, he 
said, "Allahu-Akbar! Allahu-Akbar! Khaibar is ruined. Whenever we approach a (hostile) nation (to 
fight), then evil will be the morning of those who have been warned."
Bukhari:611 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you hear the Adhan, say what the Mu'adh-dhin is saying.
Bukhari:612 Narrated `Isa bin Talha:that he had heard Muawiya repeating the words of Adhan up to "Wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 
rasulul-lah (and I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).)"
Bukhari:613 Narrated Yahya as above (586) and added:"Some of my companions told me that Hisham had said, "When the Mu'adh-dhin said, "Haiyi `alassala 
(come for the prayer)." Muawiya said, "La hawla wala quwata illa billah (There is neither might 
nor any power except with Allah)" and added, "We heard your Prophet saying the same."
Bukhari:614 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever after listening to the Adhan says, 'Allahumma Rabba hadhihi-dda` 
watit-tammah, was-salatil qa'imah, ati Muhammadan al-wasilata wal-fadilah, wa b`ath-hu 
maqaman mahmudan-il-ladhi wa`adtahu' [O Allah! Lord of this perfect call (perfect by not ascribing 
partners to You) and of the regular prayer which is going to be established, give Muhammad the right 
of intercession and illustriousness, and resurrect him to the best and the highest place in Paradise that 
You promised him (of)], then my intercession for him will be allowed on the Day of Resurrection".
Bukhari:615 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the people knew the reward for pronouncing the Adhan and for standing in 
the first row (in congregational prayers) and found no other way to get that except by drawing lots 
they would draw lots, and if they knew the reward of the Zuhr prayer (in the early moments of its 
stated time) they would race for it (go early) and if they knew the reward of `Isha' and Fajr (morning) 
prayers in congregation, they would come to offer them even if they had to crawl."
Bukhari:616 Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith:Once on a rainy muddy day, Ibn `Abbas delivered a sermon in our presence and when the Mu'adhdhin 
pronounced the Adhan and said, "Haiyi `ala-s-sala(t) (come for the prayer)" Ibn `Abbas ordered 
him to say 'Pray at your homes.' The people began to look at each other (surprisingly). Ibn `Abbas 
said. "It was done by one who was much better than I (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) or his Mu'adh-dhin), and it is a 
license.'
Bukhari:617 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:My father said that Allah s Apostle said, "Bilal pronounces 'Adhan at night, so keep on eating and 
drinking (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces Adhan." Salim added, "He was a blind man who 
would not pronounce the Adhan unless he was told that the day had dawned."
Bukhari:618 Narrated Hafsa:When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan for Fajr prayer and the dawn became evident the 
Prophet ordered a two rak`at light prayer (Sunna) before the Iqama of the compulsory 
(congregational) prayer.
Bukhari:619 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two light rak`at between the Adhan and the Iqama of the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:620 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so keep on eating and drinking (Suhur) till 
Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan."
Bukhari:621 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Adhan pronounced by Bilal should not stop you from taking Suhur, for he 
pronounces the Adhan at night, so that the one offering the late night prayer (Tahajjud) from among 
you might hurry up and the sleeping from among you might wake up. It does not mean that dawn or 
morning has started." Then he (the Prophet) pointed with his fingers and raised them up (towards the 
sky) and then lowered them (towards the earth) like this (Ibn Mas`ud imitated the gesture of the 
Prophet). Az-Zuhri gestured with his two index fingers which he put on each other and then stretched 
them to the right and left. These gestures illustrate the way real dawn appears. It spreads left and right 
horizontally. The dawn that appears in the high sky and lowers down is not the real dawn) .
Bukhari:622 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so eat and drink (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum 
pronounces the Adhan."
Bukhari:623 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so eat and drink (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum 
pronounces the Adhan."
Bukhari:624 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said thrice, "There is a prayer between the two Adhans (Adhan and Iqama)," and 
added, "For the one who wants to pray."
Bukhari:625 Narrated Anas bin Malik:"When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan, some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) would 
proceed to the pillars of the mosque (for the prayer) till the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived and in this way they used 
to pray two rak`at before the Maghrib prayer. There used to be a little time between the Adhan and the 
Iqama." Shu`ba said, "There used to be a very short interval between the two (Adhan and Iqama).
Bukhari:626 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray two light rak`at before the morning (compulsory) prayer after the day 
dawned and the Mu'adh-dhin had finished his Adhan. He then would lie on his right side till the 
Mu'adh-dhin came to pronounce the Iqama.
Bukhari:627 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:The prophet said, "There is a prayer between the two Adhans (Adhan and Iqama), there is a prayer 
between the two Adhans." And then while saying it the third time he added, "For the one who wants 
to (pray).
Bukhari:628 Narrated Malik bin Huwairith:I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with some men from my tribe and stayed with him for twenty nights. He was 
kind and merciful to us. When he realized our longing for our families, he said to us, "Go back and 
stay with your families and teach them the religion, and offer the prayer and one of you should 
pronounce the Adhan for the prayer when its time is due and the oldest one amongst you should lead 
the prayer."
Bukhari:629 Narrated Abu Dhar:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and the Mu'adh-dhin wanted to pronounce the 
Adhan for the (Zuhr) prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Let it become cooler." Then he again wanted 
to pronounce the Adhan but the Prophet; said to him, "Let it become cooler." The Mu'adh-dhin again 
wanted to pronounce the Adhan for the prayer but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let it become cooler," till the 
shadows of the hillocks become equal to their sizes. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The severity of the heat is 
from the raging of Hell."
Bukhari:630 Narrated Malik bin Huwairith:Two men came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with the intention of a journey. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When (both of) you 
set out, pronounce Adhan and then Iqama and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Bukhari:631 Narrated Malik:We came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and stayed with him for twenty days and nights. We were all young and of 
about the same age. The Prophet (ﷺ) was very kind and merciful. When he realized our longing for our 
families, he asked about our homes and the people there and we told him. Then he asked us to go back 
to our families and stay with them and teach them (the religion) and to order them to do good things. 
He also mentioned some other things which I have (remembered or [??] ) forgotten. The Prophet (ﷺ) then 
added, "Pray as you have seen me praying and when it is the time for the prayer one of you should 
pronounce the Adhan and the oldest of you should lead the prayer.
Bukhari:632 Narrated Nafi`:Once in a cold night, Ibn `Umar pronounced the Adhan for the prayer at Dajnan (the name of a 
mountain) and then said, "Pray at your homes", and informed us that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to tell the 
Mu'adh-dhin to pronounce Adhan and say, "Pray at your homes" at the end of the Adhan on a rainy or 
a very cold night during the journey."
Bukhari:633 Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa:My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at a place called Al-Abtah. Bilal came and informed him about 
the prayer and then came out with a short spear (or stick) and planted it in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at 
Al-Abtah and pronounced the Iqama."
Bukhari:634 Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa:My father said, "I saw Bilal turning his face from side to side while pronouncing the Adhan for the 
prayer."
Bukhari:635 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "While we were praying with the Prophet (ﷺ) he heard the noise of some people. After the 
prayer he said, 'What is the matter?' They replied 'We were hurrying for the prayer.' He said, 'Do not 
make haste for the prayer, and whenever you come for the prayer, you should come with calmness, 
and pray whatever you get (with the people) and complete the rest which you have missed."
Bukhari:636 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you hear the Iqama, proceed to offer the prayer with calmness and solemnity 
and do not make haste. And pray whatever you are able to pray and complete whatever you have 
missed.
Bukhari:637 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said. "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the Iqama is pronounced then do not stand for the prayer till 
you see me (in front of you).' "
Bukhari:638 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the Iqama is pronounced, then do not stand for the 
prayer till you see me (in front of you) and do it calmly.' "
Bukhari:639 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out (of the mosque) when the Iqama had been pronounced and the rows 
straightened. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood at his Musalla (praying place) and we waited for the Prophet (ﷺ) to begin 
the prayer with Takbir. He left and asked us to remain in our places. We kept on standing till the 
Prophet returned and the water was trickling from his head for he had taken a bath (of Janaba).
Bukhari:640 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once Iqama was pronounced and the people had straightened the rows, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went forward 
(to lead the prayer) but he was Junub, so he said, "Remain in your places." And he went out, took a 
bath and returned with water trickling from his head. Then he led the prayer.
Bukhari:641 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the day of Al-Khandaq (the trench), `Umar bin Al-Khattab went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I could not pray (the `Asr) till the sun had set." `Umar told this to the 
Prophet at the time when a fasting person had done Iftar (taken his meals). The Prophet (ﷺ) then went to 
Buthan and I was with him. He performed ablution and offered the `Asr prayer after the sun had set 
and then the Maghrib prayer.
Bukhari:642 Narrated Anas:Once the Iqama was pronounced and the Prophet (ﷺ) was talking to a man (in a low voice) in a corner of 
the mosque and he did not lead the prayer till (some of) the people had slept (dozed in a sitting 
posture) .
Bukhari:643 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once Iqama was pronounced a man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and detained him (from the prayer).
Bukhari:644 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is I was about to order for collecting firewood 
(fuel) and then order Someone to pronounce the Adhan for the prayer and then order someone to lead 
the prayer then I would go from behind and burn the houses of men who did not present themselves 
for the (compulsory congregational) prayer. By Him, in Whose Hands my soul is, if anyone of them 
had known that he would get a bone covered with good meat or two (small) pieces of meat present in 
between two ribs, he would have turned up for the `Isha' prayer.'
Bukhari:645 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The prayer in congregation is twenty seven times superior to the prayer offered 
by person alone."
Bukhari:646 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prayer in congregation is twenty five times superior to the prayer offered by 
person alone."
Bukhari:647 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The reward of the prayer offered by a person in congregation is twenty five 
times greater than that of the prayer offered in one's house or in the market (alone). And this is 
because if he performs ablution and does it perfectly and then proceeds to the mosque with the sole 
intention of praying, then for every step he takes towards the mosque, he is upgraded one degree in 
reward and his one sin is taken off (crossed out) from his accounts (of deeds). When he offers his 
prayer, the angels keep on asking Allah's Blessings and Allah's forgiveness for him as long as he is 
(staying) at his Musalla. They say, 'O Allah! Bestow Your blessings upon him, be Merciful and kind 
to him.' And one is regarded in prayer as long as one is waiting for the prayer."
Bukhari:648 Narrated Abu Salama bin `Abdur Rahman:Abu Huraira said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'The reward of a prayer in congregation is twenty 
five times greater than that of a prayer offered by a person alone. The angels of the night and the 
angels of the day gather at the time of Fajr prayer.' " Abu Huraira then added, "Recite the Holy Book 
if you wish, for "Indeed, the recitation of the Qur'an in the early dawn (Fajr prayer) is ever witnessed." 
(17:78).
Bukhari:649 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The reward of the congregational prayer is twenty seven times greater 
(than that of the prayer offered by a person alone).
Bukhari:650 Narrated Salim:I heard Um Ad-Darda' saying, "Abu Ad-Darda' entered the house in an angry mood. I said to him. 
'What makes you angry?' He replied, 'By Allah! I do not find the followers of Muhammad doing those 
good things (which they used to do before) except the offering of congregational prayer." (This 
happened in the last days of Abu Ad-Darda' during the rule of `Uthman) .
Bukhari:651 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people who get tremendous reward for the prayer are those who are farthest 
away (from the mosque) and then those who are next farthest and so on. Similarly one who waits to 
pray with the Imam has greater reward than one who prays and goes to bed. "
Bukhari:652 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was going on a way, he saw a thorny branch and removed it from 
the way and Allah became pleased by his action and forgave him for that." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Five are martyrs: One who dies of plague, one who dies of an Abdominal disease, one who dies of 
drowning, one who is buried alive (and) dies and one who is killed in Allah's cause." (The Prophet (ﷺ) 
further said, "If the people knew the reward for pronouncing the Adhan and for standing in the first 
row (in the congregational prayer) and found no other way to get it except by drawing lots they would 
do so, and if they knew the reward of offering the Zuhr prayer early (in its stated time), they would 
race for it and if they knew the reward for `Isha' and Fajr prayers in congregation, they would attend 
them even if they were to crawl.
Bukhari:653 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was going on a way, he saw a thorny branch and removed it from 
the way and Allah became pleased by his action and forgave him for that." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Five are martyrs: One who dies of plague, one who dies of an Abdominal disease, one who dies of 
drowning, one who is buried alive (and) dies and one who is killed in Allah's cause." (The Prophet (ﷺ) 
further said, "If the people knew the reward for pronouncing the Adhan and for standing in the first 
row (in the congregational prayer) and found no other way to get it except by drawing lots they would 
do so, and if they knew the reward of offering the Zuhr prayer early (in its stated time), they would 
race for it and if they knew the reward for `Isha' and Fajr prayers in congregation, they would attend 
them even if they were to crawl.
Bukhari:654 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was going on a way, he saw a thorny branch and removed it from 
the way and Allah became pleased by his action and forgave him for that." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Five are martyrs: One who dies of plague, one who dies of an Abdominal disease, one who dies of 
drowning, one who is buried alive (and) dies and one who is killed in Allah's cause." (The Prophet (ﷺ) 
further said, "If the people knew the reward for pronouncing the Adhan and for standing in the first 
row (in the congregational prayer) and found no other way to get it except by drawing lots they would 
do so, and if they knew the reward of offering the Zuhr prayer early (in its stated time), they would 
race for it and if they knew the reward for `Isha' and Fajr prayers in congregation, they would attend 
them even if they were to crawl.
Bukhari:655 Narrated Humaid:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O Bani Salima! Don't you think that for every step of yours (that you 
take towards the mosque) there is a reward (while coming for prayer)?" Mujahid said: "Regarding 
Allah's Statement: "We record that which they have sent before (them), and their traces" (36.12). 
'Their traces' means 'their steps.' " And Anas said that the people of Bani Salima wanted to shift to a 
place near the Prophet (ﷺ) but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked the idea of leaving their houses uninhabited and 
said, "Don't you think that you will get the reward for your footprints." Mujahid said, "Their foot 
prints mean their foot steps and their going on foot."
Bukhari:656 Narrated Humaid:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O Bani Salima! Don't you think that for every step of yours (that you 
take towards the mosque) there is a reward (while coming for prayer)?" Mujahid said: "Regarding 
Allah's Statement: "We record that which they have sent before (them), and their traces" (36.12). 
'Their traces' means 'their steps.' " And Anas said that the people of Bani Salima wanted to shift to a 
place near the Prophet (ﷺ) but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked the idea of leaving their houses uninhabited and 
said, "Don't you think that you will get the reward for your footprints." Mujahid said, "Their foot 
prints mean their foot steps and their going on foot."
Bukhari:657 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No prayer is heavier upon the hypocrites than the Fajr and the `Isha' prayers and if they knew what is in them (in reward), they would have attended them, even if (it was) crawling.  Certainly, I felt the urge to order the Mu'adh-dhin (call-maker) so that he would pronounce Iqama, then order a man to lead the people (in prayer), then take a flame of fire so that I burn (the houses) upon those who had not left for the prayer yet."
Bukhari:658 Narrated Malik bin Huwairith:Prophet said (to two persons), "Whenever the prayer time becomes due, you should pronounce Adhan 
and then Iqama and the older of you should lead the prayer."
Bukhari:659 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The angels keep on asking for Allah's Blessing and Forgiveness for anyone of 
you as long as he is at his Musalla (praying place) and does not do Hadath (passes wind). The angels 
say, 'O Allah! Forgive him and be Merciful to him.' Each one of you is in the prayer as long as he is 
waiting for the prayer and nothing but the prayer detains him from going to his family."
Bukhari:660 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will give shade, to seven, on the Day when there will be no shade but His. 
(These seven persons are) a just ruler, a youth who has been brought up in the worship of Allah (i.e. 
worships Allah sincerely from childhood), a man whose heart is attached to the mosques (i.e. to pray 
the compulsory prayers in the mosque in congregation), two persons who love each other only for 
Allah's sake and they meet and part in Allah's cause only, a man who refuses the call of a charming 
woman of noble birth for illicit intercourse with her and says: I am afraid of Allah, a man who gives 
charitable gifts so secretly that his left hand does not know what his right hand has given (i.e. nobody 
knows how much he has given in charity), and a person who remembers Allah in seclusion and his 
eyes are then flooded with tears."
Bukhari:661 Narrated Humaid:Anas was asked, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wear a ring?" He said, "Yes. Once he delayed the `Isha' prayer 
till midnight and after the prayer, he faced us and said, 'The people prayed and have slept and you 
remained in prayer as long as you waited for it.' " Anas added, "As if I were just now observing the 
glitter of his ring."
Bukhari:662 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will prepare for him who goes to the mosque (every) morning and in the 
afternoon (for the congregational prayer) an honorable place in Paradise with good hospitality for 
(what he has done) every morning and afternoon goings.
Bukhari:663 Narrated Malik Ibn Buhaina:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a man praying two rak`at after the Iqama (had been pronounced). When 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed the prayer, the people gathered around him (the Prophet) or that man and 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him (protesting), Are there four rak`at in Fajr prayer? Are there four rak`at in 
Fajr prayer?"
Bukhari:664 Narrated Al-Aswad:"We were with `Aisha discussing the regularity of offering the prayer and dignifying it. She said, 
'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell sick with the fatal illness and when the time of prayer became due and 
Adhan was pronounced, he said, 'Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer.' He was told that Abu 
Bakr was a softhearted man and would not be able to lead the prayer in his place. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave 
the same order again but he was given the same reply. He gave the order for the third time and said, 
'You (women) are the companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer.' So Abu Bakr came 
out to lead the prayer. In the meantime the condition of the Prophet (ﷺ) improved a bit and he came out 
with the help of two men one on each side. As if I was observing his legs dragging on the ground 
owing to the disease. Abu Bakr wanted to retreat but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him to remain at his place 
and the Prophet (ﷺ) was brought till he sat beside Abu Bakr." Al-A`mash was asked, "Was the Prophet (ﷺ) 
praying and Abu Bakr following him, and were the people following Abu Bakr in that prayer?" Al- 
A`mash replied in the affirmative with a nod of his head. Abu Muawiya said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting 
on the left side of Abu Bakr who was praying while standing."
Bukhari:665 Narrated `Aisha:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) became seriously ill and his disease became aggravated he asked for permission 
from his wives to be nursed in my house and he was allowed. He came out with the help of two men 
and his legs were dragging on the ground. He was between Al-`Abbas and another man." 
'Ubaidullah said, "I told Ibn `Abbas what `Aisha had narrated and he said, 'Do you know who was the 
(second) man whose name `Aisha did not mention'" I said, 'No.' Ibn `Abbas said, 'He was `Ali Ibn Abi 
Talib.' "
Bukhari:666 Narrated Nafi`:Once on a very cold and stormy night, Ibn `Umar pronounced the Adhan for the prayer and then said, 
"Pray in your homes." He (Ibn `Umar) added. "On very cold and rainy nights Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to 
order the Mu'adh-dhin to say, 'Pray in your homes.' "
Bukhari:667 Narrated Mahmud bin Rabi` Al-Ansari:`Itban bin Malik used to lead his people (tribe) in prayer and was a blind man, he said to Allah's 
Apostle , "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! At times it is dark and flood water is flowing (in the valley) and I am 
blind man, so please pray at a place in my house so that I can take it as a Musalla (praying place)." So 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to his house and said, "Where do you like me to pray?" 'Itban pointed to a place 
in his house and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), offered the prayer there.
Bukhari:668 Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith:Ibn `Abbas addressed us on a (rainy and) muddy day and when the Mu'adh-dhin said, "Come for the 
prayer" Ibn `Abbas ordered him to say, "Pray in your homes." The people began to look at one another 
with surprise as if they did not like it. Ibn `Abbas said, "It seems that you thought ill of it but no doubt 
it was done by one who was better than I (i.e. the Prophet). It (the prayer) is a strict order and I 
disliked to bring you out." 
Ibn `Abbas narrated the same as above but he said, "I did not like you to make you sinful (in 
refraining from coming to the mosque) and to come (to the mosque) covered with mud up to the 
knees."
Bukhari:669 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:A cloud came and it rained till the roof started leaking and in those days the roof used to be of the 
branches of date-palms. Iqama was pronounced and I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s prostrating in water and 
mud and even I saw the mark of mud on his forehead.
Bukhari:670 Narrated Anas bin Seereen:I heard Anas saying, "A man from Ansar said to the Prophet, 'I cannot pray with you (in 
congregation).' He was a very fat man and he prepared a meal for the Prophet (ﷺ) and invited him to his 
house. He spread out a mat for the Prophet, and washed one of its sides with water, and the Prophet (ﷺ) 
prayed two rak`at on it." A man from the family of Al-Jaruid [??] asked, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray 
the Duha (forenoon) prayer?" Anas said, "I did not see him praying the Duha prayer except on that 
day."
Bukhari:671 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If supper is served, and Iqama is pronounced one should start with the supper."
Bukhari:672 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the supper is served start having it before praying the Maghrib prayer and do 
not be hasty in finishing it."
Bukhari:673 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the supper is served for anyone of you and the Iqama is 
pronounced, start with the supper and don't be in haste (and carry on eating) till you finish it." If food 
was served for Ibn `Umar and Iqama was pronounced, he never came to the prayer till he finished it 
(i.e. food) in spite of the fact that he heard the recitation (of the Qur'an) by the Imam (in the prayer).
Bukhari:674 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you is having his meals, he should not hurry up 
till he is; satisfied even if the prayer has been started."
Bukhari:675 Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya:My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating a piece of meat from the shoulder of a sheep and he was 
called for the prayer. He stood up, put down the knife and prayed but did not perform ablution.''
Bukhari:676 Narrated Al-Aswad:That he asked `Aisha "What did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do in his house?" She replied, "He used to keep 
himself busy serving his family and when it was the time for prayer he would go for it."
Bukhari:677 Narrated Aiyub:Abu Qilaba said, "Malik bin Huwairith came to this Mosque of ours and said, 'I pray in front of you 
and my aim is not to lead the prayer but to show you the way in which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray.' " I 
asked Abu Qilaba, "How did he use to pray?' " He replied, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray) like this 
Sheikh of ours and the Sheikh used to sit for a while after the prostration, before getting up after the 
first rak`a. "
Bukhari:678 Narrated Abu Musa:"The Prophet (ﷺ) became sick and when his disease became aggravated, he said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead 
the prayer." `Aisha said, "He is a softhearted man and would not be able to lead the prayer in your 
place." The Prophet (ﷺ) said again, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." She repeated the same 
reply but he said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer. You are the companions of Joseph." So 
the messenger went to Abu Bakr (with that order) and he led the people in prayer in the lifetime of the 
Prophet.
Bukhari:679 Narrated `Aisha:the mother of the believers: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his illness said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in 
prayer." I said to him, "If Abu Bakr stands in your place, the people would not hear him owing to his 
(excessive) weeping. So please order `Umar to lead the prayer." `Aisha added I said to Hafsa, "Say to 
him: If Abu Bakr should lead the people in the prayer in your place, the people would not be able to 
hear him owing to his weeping; so please, order `Umar to lead the prayer." Hafsa did so but Allah's 
Apostle said, "Keep quiet! You are verily the Companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people 
in the prayer. " Hafsa said to `Aisha, "I never got anything good from you."
Bukhari:680 Narrated Az-Zuhri:Anas bin Malik Al-Ansari, told me, "Abu Bakr used to lead the people in prayer during the fatal 
illness of the Prophet (ﷺ) till it was Monday. When the people aligned (in rows) for the prayer the Prophet (ﷺ) 
lifted the curtain of his house and started looking at us and was standing at that time. His face was 
(glittering) like a page of the Qur'an and he smiled cheerfully. We were about to be put to trial for the 
pleasure of seeing the Prophet, Abu Bakr retreated to join the row as he thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) 
would lead the prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned us to complete the prayer and he let the curtain fall. On the same day he died."
Bukhari:681 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not come out for three days. The people stood for the prayer and Abu Bakr went 
ahead to lead the prayer. (In the meantime) the Prophet (ﷺ) caught hold of the curtain and lifted it. When 
the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) appeared we had never seen a scene more pleasing than the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
as it appeared then. The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned to Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer and then let 
the curtain fall. We did not see him (again) till he died.
Bukhari:682 Narrated Hamza bin `Abdullah:My father said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became seriously ill, he was told about the prayer. He said, 
'Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer.' `Aisha said, 'Abu Bakr is a softhearted man and he 
would be overpowered by his weeping if he recited the Qur'an.' He said to them, 'Tell him (Abu Bakr) 
to lead the prayer. The same reply was given to him. He said again, 'Tell him to lead the prayer. You 
(women) are the companions of Joseph."
Bukhari:683 Narrated Hisham ibn `Urwa's father:`Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer during his illness and 
so he led them in prayer." `Urwa, a sub narrator, added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt a bit relieved and came 
out and Abu Bakr was leading the people. When Abu Bakr saw the Prophet (ﷺ) he retreated but the 
Prophet beckoned him to remain there. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sat beside Abu Bakr. Abu Bakr was following 
the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people were following the prayer of Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:684 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to establish peace among Bani `Amr bin `Auf. In the meantime the time of 
prayer was due and the Mu'adh-dhin went to Abu Bakr and said, "Will you lead the prayer, so that I 
may pronounce the Iqama?" Abu Bakr replied in the affirmative and led the prayer. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
came while the people were still praying and he entered the rows of the praying people till he stood in 
the (first row). The people clapped their hands. Abu Bakr never glanced sideways in his prayer but 
when the people continued clapping, Abu Bakr looked and saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
beckoned him to stay at his place. Abu Bakr raised his hands and thanked Allah for that order of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then he retreated till he reached the first row. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went forward and 
led the prayer. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the prayer, he said, "O Abu Bakr! What prevented you 
from staying when I ordered you to do so?" 
Abu Bakr replied, "How can Ibn Abi Quhafa (Abu Bakr) dare to lead the prayer in the presence of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Why did you clap so much? If something happens to 
anyone during his prayer he should say Subhan Allah. If he says so he will be attended to, for clapping 
is for women."
Bukhari:685 Narrated Malik bin Huwairith:We went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and we were all young men and stayed with him for about twenty nights. The 
Prophet (ﷺ) was very merciful. He said, "When you return home, impart religious teachings to your 
families and tell them to offer perfectly such and such a prayer at such and such a time and such and 
such a prayer at such and such a time. And at the time of the prayer one of you should pronounce the 
Adhan and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Bukhari:686 Narrated `Itban bin Malik Al-Ansari:The Prophet (came to my house and) asked permission for entering and I allowed him. He asked, 
"Where do you like me to pray in your house?" I pointed to a place which I liked. He stood up for 
prayer and we aligned behind him and he finished the prayer with Taslim and we did the same.
Bukhari:687 Narrated 'Ubaidullah Ibn `Abdullah bin `Utba:I went to `Aisha and asked her to describe to me the illness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Aisha said, "Yes. The 
Prophet became seriously ill and asked whether the people had prayed. We replied, 'No. O Allah's 
Apostle! They are waiting for you.' He added, 'Put water for me in a trough." `Aisha added, "We did 
so. He took a bath and tried to get up but fainted. When he recovered, he again asked whether the 
people had prayed. We said, 'No, they are waiting for you. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ),' He again said, 'Put 
water in a trough for me.' He sat down and took a bath and tried to get up but fainted again. Then he 
recovered and said, 'Have the people prayed?' We replied, 'No, they are waiting for you. O Allah's 
Apostle.' He said, 'Put water for me in the trough.' Then he sat down and washed himself and tried to 
get up but he fainted. When he recovered, he asked, 'Have the people prayed?' We said, 'No, they are 
waiting for you. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The people were in the mosque waiting for the Prophet (ﷺ) for the 
`Isha prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer. The messenger went to 
Abu Bakr and said, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) orders you to lead the people in the prayer.' Abu Bakr was a 
softhearted man, so he asked `Umar to lead the prayer but `Umar replied, 'You are more rightful.' So 
Abu Bakr led the prayer in those days. When the Prophet (ﷺ) felt a bit better, he came out for the Zuhr 
prayer with the help of two persons one of whom was Al-`Abbas. while Abu Bakr was leading the 
people in the prayer. When Abu Bakr saw him he wanted to retreat but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him not 
to do so and asked them to make him sit beside Abu Bakr and they did so. Abu Bakr was following 
the Prophet (in the prayer) and the people were following Abu Bakr. The Prophet (prayed) sitting." 
'Ubaidullah added "I went to `Abdullah bin `Abbas and asked him, Shall I tell you what Aisha has told 
me about the fatal illness of the Prophet?' Ibn `Abbas said, 'Go ahead. I told him her narration and he 
did not deny anything of it but asked whether `Aisha told me the name of the second person (who 
helped the Prophet (ﷺ) ) along with Al-Abbas. I said. 'No.' He said, 'He was `Ali (Ibn Abi Talib).
Bukhari:688 Narrated Aisha:the mother of the believers: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during his illness prayed at his house while sitting 
whereas some people prayed behind him standing. The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned them to sit down. On 
completion of the prayer, he said, 'The Imam is to be followed: bow when he bows, raise up your 
heads (stand erect) when he raises his head and when he says, 'Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah' (Allah 
heard those who sent praises to Him) say then 'Rabbana wa laka l-hamd' (O our Lord! All the praises 
are for You), and if he prays sitting then pray sitting."
Bukhari:689 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse and fell down and the right side (of his body) was injured. He 
offered one of the prayers while sitting and we also prayed behind him sitting. When he completed the 
prayer, he said, "The Imam is to be followed. Pray standing if he prays standing and bow when he 
bows; rise when he rises; and if he says, 'Sami`a l-lahu-liman hamidah, say then, 'Rabbana wa laka lhamd' 
and pray standing if he prays standing and pray sitting (all of you) if he prays sitting." 
Humaid said: The saying of the Prophet (ﷺ) "Pray sitting, if he (Imam) prays sitting" was said in his 
former illness (during his early life) but the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed sitting afterwards (in the last illness) and 
the people were praying standing behind him and the Prophet (ﷺ) did not order them to sit. We should 
follow the latest actions of the Prophet.
Bukhari:690 Narrated Al-Bara:(and he was not a liar) When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah" none of us bent his 
back (for prostration) till the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated and then we would prostrate after him.
Bukhari:691 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't he who raises his head before the Imam afraid that Allah may transform his 
head into that of a donkey or his figure (face) into that of a donkey?"
Bukhari:692 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the earliest emigrants came to Al-`Usba [??] a place in Quba', before the arrival of the Prophet- 
Salim, the slave of Abu Hudhaifa, who knew the Qur'an more than the others used to lead them in 
prayer.
Bukhari:693 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Listen and obey (your chief) even if an Ethiopian whose head is like a raisin were 
made your chief."
Bukhari:694 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the Imam leads the prayer correctly then he and you will receive the rewards 
but if he makes a mistake (in the prayer) then you will receive the reward for the prayer and the sin 
will be his."
Bukhari:695 Narrated 'Ubaid-Ullah bin Adi bin Khiyar:I went to 'Uthman bin Affan while he was besieged, and said to him, "You are the chief of all Muslims in general and you see what has befallen you. We are led in the Salat (prayer) by a leader of Al-Fitan (trials and afflictions etc.) and we are afraid of being sinful in following him." 'Uthman said. "As-Salat (the prayers) is the best of all deeds so when the people do good deeds do the same with them and when they do bad deeds, avoid those bad deeds." Az-Zuhri said, "In our opinion one should not offer Salat behind an effeminate person unless there is no alternative."
Bukhari:696 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu-Dhar, "Listen and obey (your chief) even if he is an Ethiopian with a head 
like a raisin."
Bukhari:697 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I passed the night in the house of my aunt Maimuna. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the `Isha' prayer 
and then came to the house and offered four rak`at an slept. Later on, he woke up and stood for the 
prayer and I stood on his left side. He drew me to his right and prayed five rak`at and then two. He 
then slept till I heard him snoring (or heard his breath sounds). Afterwards he went out for the 
morning prayer.
Bukhari:698 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:One night I slept at the house of (my aunt) Maimuna and the Prophet (ﷺ) was there on that night. He 
performed ablution and stood up for the prayer. I joined him and stood on his left side but he drew me 
to his right and prayed thirteen rak`at and then slept till I heard his breath sounds. And whenever he 
slept, he used to breathe with audible sounds. The Mu'adh-dhin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he went out 
and prayed the morning prayer) without repeating the ablution.
Bukhari:699 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I passed the night in the house of my aunt Maimuna. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood for the night prayer and 
I joined him and stood on his left side but he drew me to his right by holding me by the head.
Bukhari:700 Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal:I used to pray the `Isha prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead my people in the prayer.
Bukhari:701 Narrated `Amr:Jabir bin `Abdullah said, "Mu`adh bin Jabal used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead his 
people in prayer Once he led the `Isha' prayer and recited Surat "Al-Baqara." Somebody left the 
prayer and Mu`adh criticized him. The news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said to Mu`adh, 'You are 
putting the people to trial,' and repeated it thrice (or said something similar) and ordered him to recite 
two medium Suras of Mufassal." (`Amr said that he had forgotten the names of those Suras).
Bukhari:702 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:A man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I keep away from the morning prayer only 
because So and so prolongs the prayer when he leads us in it." The narrator said, "I never saw Allah's 
Apostle more furious in giving advice than he was at that time. He then said, "Some of you make 
people dislike good deeds (the prayer). So whoever among you leads the people in prayer should 
shorten it because among them are the weak, the old and the needy."
Bukhari:703 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you leads the people in the prayer, he should shorten it for amongst 
them are the weak, the sick and the old; and if anyone among your prays alone then he may prolong 
(the prayer) as much as he wishes. "
Bukhari:704 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:A man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I keep away from the morning prayer because so-and-so 
(Imam) prolongs it too much." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became furious and I had never seen him more furious 
than he was on that day. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O people! Some of you make others dislike the prayer, so 
whoever becomes an Imam he should shorten the prayer, as behind him are the weak, the old and the 
needy.''
Bukhari:705 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:Once a man was driving two Nadihas (camels used for agricultural purposes) and night had fallen. He 
found Mu`adh praying so he made his camel kneel and joined Mu`adh in the prayer. The latter recited 
Surat 'Al-Baqara" or Surat "An-Nisa", (so) the man left the prayer and went away. When he came to 
know that Mu`adh had criticized him, he went to the Prophet, and complained against Mu`adh. The 
Prophet said thrice, "O Mu`adh ! Are you putting the people to trial?" It would have been better if you 
had recited "Sabbih Isma Rabbika-l-A`la (87)", Wash-shamsi wa duhaha (91)", or "Wal-laili idha 
yaghsha (92)", for the old, the weak and the needy pray behind you." Jabir said that Mu`adh recited 
Sura Al-Baqara in the `Isha' prayer.
Bukhari:706 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray a short prayer (in congregation) but used to offer it in a perfect manner.
Bukhari:707 Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'When I stand for prayer, I intend to prolong it but on hearing the 
cries of a child, I cut it short, as I dislike to trouble the child's mother.' "
Bukhari:708 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I never prayed behind any Imam a prayer lighter and more perfect than that behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and he 
used to cut short the prayer whenever he heard the cries of a child lest he should put the child's mother 
to trial.
Bukhari:709 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When I start the prayer I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I 
cut short the prayer because I know that the cries of the child will incite its mother's passions."
Bukhari:710 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet, said, "Whenever I start the prayer I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a 
child, I cut short the prayer because I know that the cries of the child will incite its mother's passions."
Bukhari:711 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Mu`adh used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go and lead his people (tribe) in the prayer.
Bukhari:712 Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet, became ill in his fatal illness, Someone came to inform him about the prayer, and 
the Prophet (ﷺ) told him to tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer. I said, "Abu Bakr is a 
softhearted man and if he stands for the prayer in your place, he would weep and would not be able to 
recite the Qur'an." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer." I said the same as before. He 
(repeated the same order and) on the third or the fourth time he said, "You are the companions of 
Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer." So Abu Bakr led the prayer and meanwhile the Prophet (ﷺ) felt 
better and came out with the help of two men; as if I see him just now dragging his feet on the ground. 
When Abu Bakr saw him, he tried to retreat but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on. Abu Bakr 
retreated a bit and the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on his (left) side. Abu Bakr was repeating the Takbir (Allahu 
Akbar) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the people to hear.
Bukhari:713 Narrated `Aisha:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became seriously ill, Bilal came to him for the prayer. He said, "Tell Abu Bakr 
to lead the people in the prayer." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Abu Bakr is a softhearted man and if he 
stands in your place, he would not be able to make the people hear him. Will you order `Umar (to lead 
the prayer)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." Then I said to Hafsa, 
"Tell him, Abu i Bakr is a softhearted man and if he stands in his place, he would not be able to make 
the people hear him. Would you order `Umar to lead the prayer?' " Hafsa did so. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Verily you are the companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." So Abu- 
Bakr stood for the prayer. In the meantime Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt better and came out with the help of 
two persons and both of his legs were dragging on the ground till he entered the mosque. When Abu 
Bakr heard him coming, he tried to retreat but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
sat on his left side. Abu Bakr was praying while standing and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was leading the prayer 
while sitting. Abu Bakr was following the Prophet (ﷺ) and the people were following Abu Bakr (in the 
prayer).
Bukhari:714 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed two rak`at (instead of four) and finished his prayer. Dhul-Yadain asked 
him whether the prayer had been reduced or whether he had forgotten. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked the 
people whether Dhul-Yadain was telling the truth. The people replied in the affirmative. Then Allah's 
Apostle stood up, offered the remaining two rak`at and then finished his prayer with Taslim and then 
said, "Allahu Akbar." He followed it with two prostrations like ordinary prostrations or a bit longer.
Bukhari:715 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed two rak`at of Zuhr prayer (instead of four) and he was told that he had prayed two 
rak`at only. Then he prayed two more rak`at and finished them with the Taslim followed by two 
prostrations.
Bukhari:716 Narrated `Aisha:the mother of the faithful believers: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his last illness said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the 
people in the prayer." I said, "If Abu Bakr stood in your place, he would not be able to make the 
people hear him owing to his weeping. So please order `Umar to lead the prayer." He said, "Tell Abu 
Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." I said to Hafsa, "Say to him, 'Abu Bakr is a softhearted man and 
if he stood in your place he would not be able to make the people hear him owing to his weeping. So 
order `Umar to lead the people in the prayer.' " Hafsa did so but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Keep quiet. 
Verily you are the companions of (Prophet) Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." 
Hafsa said to me, "I never got any good from you."
Bukhari:717 Narrated An-Nu`man bin 'Bashir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows or Allah will alter your faces."
Bukhari:718 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows, for I see you from behind my back.'
Bukhari:719 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Iqama was pronounced and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) faced us and said, "Straighten your rows and 
stand closer together, for I see you from behind my back.'
Bukhari:720 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Martyrs are those who die because of drowning, plague, an Abdominal disease, or 
of being buried alive by a falling building." And then he added, "If the people knew the Reward for 
the Zuhr prayer in its early time, they would race for it. If they knew the reward for the `Isha' and the 
Fajr prayers in congregation, they would join them even if they had to crawl. If they knew the reward 
for the first row, they would draw lots for it."
Bukhari:721 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Martyrs are those who die because of drowning, plague, an Abdominal disease, or 
of being buried alive by a falling building." And then he added, "If the people knew the Reward for 
the Zuhr prayer in its early time, they would race for it. If they knew the reward for the `Isha' and the 
Fajr prayers in congregation, they would join them even if they had to crawl. If they knew the reward 
for the first row, they would draw lots for it."
Bukhari:722 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Imam is (appointed) to be followed. So do not differ from him, bow when he 
bows, and say, "Rabbana-lakal hamd" if he says "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah"; and if he prostrates, 
prostrate (after him), and if he prays sitting, pray sitting all together, and straighten the rows for the 
prayer, as the straightening of the rows is amongst those things which make your prayer a correct and 
perfect one. (See Hadith No. 657).
Bukhari:723 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows as the straightening of rows is essential for a perfect and 
correct prayer. "
Bukhari:724 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I arrived at Medina and was asked whether I found any change since the days of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I 
said, "I have not found any change except that you do not stand in alignment in your prayers."
Bukhari:725 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows for I see you from behind my back." Anas added, "Everyone 
of us used to put his shoulder with the shoulder of his companion and his foot with the foot of his 
companion."
Bukhari:726 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) one night and stood on his left side. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) caught hold of my head 
from behind and drew me to his right and then offered the prayer and slept. Later the Mu'adh-dhin 
came and the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up for prayer without performing ablution.
Bukhari:727 Narrated Anas bin Malik:One night an orphan and I offered the prayers behind the Prophet (ﷺ) in my house and my mother (Um 
Sulaim) was standing behind us (by herself forming a row).
Bukhari:728 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:One night I stood to the left of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the prayer but he caught hold of me by the hand or by 
the shoulder (arm) till he made me stand on his right and beckoned with his hand (for me) to go from 
behind (him). (Al-Kashmaihani [??] , Fath-ul-Bari).
Bukhari:729 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray in his room at night. As the wall of the room was LOW, the people saw 
him and some of them stood up to follow him in the prayer. In the morning they spread the news. The 
following night the Prophet (ﷺ) stood for the prayer and the people followed him. This went on for two or 
three nights. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not stand for the prayer the following night, and did not 
come out. In the morning, the people asked him about it. He replied, that he way afraid that the night 
prayer might become compulsory.
Bukhari:730 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a mat which he used to spread during the day and use as a curtain at night. So a 
number of people gathered at night facing it and prayed behind him.
Bukhari:731 Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a small room in the month of Ramadan (Sa`id said, "I think that Zaid bin Thabit 
said that it was made of a mat") and he prayed there for a few nights, and so some of his companions 
prayed behind him. When he came to know about it, he kept on sitting. In the morning, he went out to 
them and said, "I have seen and understood what you did. You should pray in your houses, for the best 
prayer of a person is that which he prays in his house except the compulsory prayers."
Bukhari:732 Narrated Anas bin Malik Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse and fell down and the right side of his body was injured. On that day he 
prayed one of the prayers sitting and we also prayed behind him sitting. When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the 
prayer with Taslim, he said, "The Imam is to be followed and if he prays standing then pray standing, 
and bow when he bows, and raise your heads when he raises his head; prostrate when he prostrates; 
and if he says "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah", you should say, "Rabbana wa laka l-hamd.:
Bukhari:733 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell from a horse and got injured so he led the prayer sitting and we also prayed 
sitting. When he completed the prayer he said, "The Imam is to be followed; if he says Takbir then say 
Takbir, bow if he bows; raise your heads when he raises his head, when he says, 'Sami`a l-lahu liman 
hamidah say, 'Rabbana laka l-hamd', and prostrate when he prostrates."
Bukhari:734 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Imam is to be followed. Say the Takbir when he says it; bow if he bows; if he 
says 'Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah', say, ' Rabbana wa laka l-hamd', prostrate if he prostrates and pray 
sitting altogether if he prays sitting."
Bukhari:735 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to raise both his hands up to the level of his shoulders when 
opening the prayer; and on saying the Takbir for bowing. And on raising his head from bowing he 
used to do the same and then say "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah, Rabbana wa laka l-hamd." And he 
did not do that (i.e. raising his hands) in prostrations.
Bukhari:736 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I saw that whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood for the prayer, he used to raise both his hands up to the 
shoulders, and used to do the same on saying the Takbir for bowing and on raising his head from it 
and used to say, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah". But he did not do that (i.e. raising his hands) in 
prostrations.
Bukhari:737 Narrated Abu Qilaba:I saw Malik bin Huwairith saying Takbir and raising both his hands (on starting the prayers and 
raising his hands on bowing and also on raising his head after bowing. Malik bin Huwairith said, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same."
Bukhari:738 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) opening the prayer with the Takbir and raising his hands to the level of his 
shoulders at the time of saying the Takbir, and on saying the Takbir for bowing he did the same; and 
when he said, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah ", he did the same and then said, "Rabbana wa laka lhamd." 
But he did not do the same on prostrating and on lifting the head from it."
Bukhari:739 Narrated Nafi`:Whenever Ibn `Umar started the prayer with Takbir, he used to raise his hands: whenever he bowed, 
he used to raise his hands (before bowing) and also used to raise his hands on saying, "Sami`a l-lahu 
liman hamidah", and he used to do the same on rising from the second rak`a (for the 3rd rak`a). Ibn 
`Umar said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same."
Bukhari:740 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The people were ordered to place the right hand on the left forearm in the prayer. Abu Hazim said, "I 
knew that the order was from the Prophet (ﷺ) ."
Bukhari:741 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see me facing the Qibla; but, by Allah, nothing is hidden from me 
regarding your bowing and submissiveness and I see you from behind my back."
Bukhari:742 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform the bowing and the prostrations properly. By Allah, I see you from behind 
me (or from behind my back) when you bow or prostrate."
Bukhari:743 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar used to start the prayer with "Al hamdu li l-lahi Rabbi l-`alamin 
(All praise is but to Allah, Lord of the Worlds).
Bukhari:744 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to keep silent between the Takbir and the recitation of Qur'an and that interval of 
silence used to be a short one. I said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "May my parents be sacrificed for you! What do 
you say in the pause between Takbir and recitation?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I say, 'Allahumma, baa`id 
baini wa baina khatayaya kama baa`adta baina l-mashriqi wa l-maghrib. Allahumma, naqqini min 
khatayaya kama yunaqqa th-thawbu l-abyadu mina d-danas. Allahumma, ighsil khatayaya bi l-maa'i 
wa th-thalji wa l-barad (O Allah! Set me apart from my sins (faults) as the East and West are set apart 
from each other and clean me from sins as a white garment is cleaned of dirt (after thorough washing). 
O Allah! Wash off my sins with water, snow and hail.)"
Bukhari:745 Narrated Asma' bint Abi Bakr:The Prophet (ﷺ) once offered the eclipse prayer. He stood for a long time and then did a prolonged 
bowing. He stood up straight again and kept on standing for a long time, then bowed a long bowing 
and then stood up straight and then prostrated a prolonged prostration and then lifted his head and 
prostrated a prolonged prostration. And then he stood up for a long time and then did a prolonged 
bowing and then stood up straight again and kept on standing for a long time. Then he bowed a long 
bowing and then stood up straight and then prostrated a prolonged prostration and then lifted his head 
and went for a prolonged prostration. On completion o the prayer, he said, "Paradise became s near to 
me that if I had dared, I would have plucked one of its bunches for you and Hell became so near to me 
that said, 'O my Lord will I be among those people?' Then suddenly I saw a woman and a cat was 
lacerating her with it claws. On inquiring, it was said that the woman had imprisoned the cat till it died 
of starvation and she neither fed it no freed it so that it could feed itself."
Bukhari:746 Narrated Abu Ma`mar:We asked Khabbab whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite (the Qur'an) in the Zuhr and the `Asr 
prayers. He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know about it?" He said, "By 
the movement of his beard."
Bukhari:747 Narrated Al-Bara:(And Al-Bara was not a liar) Whenever we offered prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he raised his head 
from the bowing, we used to remain standing till we saw him prostrating .
Bukhari:748 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Once solar eclipse occurred during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He offered the eclipse prayer. His 
companions asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We saw you trying to take something while standing at your 
place and then we saw you retreating." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I was shown Paradise and wanted to have a 
bunch of fruit from it. Had I taken it, you would have eaten from it as long as the world remains."
Bukhari:749 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in prayer and then went up to the pulpit and beckoned with both hands towards the 
Qibla of the mosque and then said, "When I started leading you in prayer, I saw the display of 
Paradise and Hell on the wall of the mosque (facing the Qibla). I never saw good and bad as I have 
seen today." He repeated the last statement thrice.
Bukhari:750 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is wrong with those people who look towards the sky during the prayer?" His 
talk grew stern while delivering this speech and he said, "They should stop (looking towards the sky 
during the prayer); otherwise their eyesight would be taken away."
Bukhari:751 Narrated `Aisha:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about looking hither and thither in prayer. He replied, "It is a way of stealing 
by which Satan takes away (a portion) from the prayer of a person."
Bukhari:752 Narrated `Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed on a Khamisa with marks on it and said, "The marks on it diverted my 
attention, take this Khamisa to Abu Jahm and bring an Inbijaniya (from him.)"
Bukhari:753 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw expectoration in the direction of the Qibla of the mosque while he was leading the 
prayer, and scratched it off. After finishing the prayer, he said, "Whenever any of you is in prayer he 
should know that Allah is in front of him. So none should spit in front of him in the prayer."
Bukhari:754 Narrated Anas:While the Muslims were offering the Fajr prayer, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) suddenly appeared before them by 
living the curtain of the dwelling place of `Aisha, looked towards the Muslims who were standing in 
rows. He smiled with pleasure. Abu Bakr started retreating to join the row on the assumption that the 
Prophet wanted to come out for the prayer. The Muslims intended to leave the prayer (and were on the 
verge of being put to trial), but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned them to complete their prayer and then he let the 
curtain fall. He died in the last hours of that day.
Bukhari:755 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:The People of Kufa complained against Sa`d to `Umar and the latter dismissed him and appointed 
`Ammar as their chief . They lodged many complaints against Sa`d and even they alleged that he did 
not pray properly. `Umar sent for him and said, "O Aba 'Is-haq! These people claim that you do not 
pray properly." Abu 'Is-haq said, "By Allah, I used to pray with them a prayer similar to that of Allah's 
Apostle and I never reduced anything of it. I used to prolong the first two rak`at of `Isha prayer and 
shorten the last two rak`at." `Umar said, "O Aba 'Is-haq, this was what I thought about you." And then 
he sent one or more persons with him to Kufa so as to ask the people about him. So they went there 
and did not leave any mosque without asking about him. All the people praised him till they came to 
the mosque of the tribe of Bani `Abs; one of the men called Usama bin Qatada with a surname of Aba 
Sa`da stood up and said, "As you have put us under an oath; I am bound to tell you that Sa`d never 
went himself with the army and never distributed (the war booty) equally and never did justice in legal 
verdicts." (On hearing it) Sa`d said, "I pray to Allah for three things: O Allah! If this slave of yours is 
a liar and got up for showing off, give him a long life, increase his poverty and put him to trials." (And 
so it happened). Later on when that person was asked how he was, he used to reply that he was an old 
man in trial as the result of Sa`d's curse. `Abdul Malik, the sub narrator, said that he had seen him 
afterwards and his eyebrows were overhanging his eyes owing to old age and he used to tease and 
assault the small girls in the way.
Bukhari:756 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not recite Al-Fatiha in his prayer, his prayer is invalid."
Bukhari:757 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the mosque and a person followed him. The man prayed and went to the 
Prophet and greeted him. The Prophet (ﷺ) returned the greeting and said to him, "Go back and pray, for 
you have not prayed." The man went back prayed in the same way as before, returned and greeted the 
Prophet who said, "Go back and pray, for you have not prayed." This happened thrice. The man said, 
"By Him Who sent you with the Truth, I cannot offer the prayer in a better way than this. Please, 
teach me how to pray." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you stand for Prayer say Takbir and then recite from 
the Holy Qur'an (of what you know by heart) and then bow till you feel at ease. Then raise your head 
and stand up straight, then prostrate till you feel at ease during your prostration, then sit with calmness 
till you feel at ease (do not hurry) and do the same in all your prayers.
Bukhari:758 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:Sa`d said, "I used to pray with them a prayer similar to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (the prayer of Zuhr and 
`Asr) reducing nothing from them. I used to prolong the first two rak`at and shorten the last two 
rak`at." `Umar said to Sa`d "This was what we thought about you."
Bukhari:759 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) in Zuhr prayers used to recite Al-Fatiha along with two other Suras in 
the first two rak`at: a long one in the first rak`a and a shorter (Sura) in the second, and at times the 
verses were audible. In the `Asr prayer the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha and two more Suras in the 
first two rak`at and used to prolong the first rak`a. And he used to prolong the first rak`a of the Fajr 
prayer and shorten the second.
Bukhari:760 Narrated Abu Ma`mar:I asked Khabbab whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He 
replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know that?" He said, "From the movement 
of his beard."
Bukhari:761 Narrated Abu Ma`mar:I asked Khabbab bin Al-Art whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an in the Zuhr and the `Asr 
prayers. He replied in the affirmative. I said, "How did you come to know that?" He replied, "From 
the movement of his beard."
Bukhari:762 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha along with another Sura in the first two rak`at of 
the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers and at times a verse or so was audible to us."
Bukhari:763 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(My mother) Umu-l-Fadl heard me reciting "Wal Mursalati `Urfan" (77) and said, "O my son! By 
Allah, your recitation made me remember that it was the last Sura I heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He 
recited it in the Maghrib prayer. "
Bukhari:764 Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam:Zaid bin Thabit said to me, "Why do you recite very short Suras in the Maghrib prayer while I heard 
the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting the longer of the two long Suras?"
Bukhari:765 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:My father said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting "at-Tur" (52) in the Maghrib prayer."
Bukhari:766 Narrated Abu Rafi`:I offered the `Isha' prayer behind Abu Huraira and he recited, "Idha s-samaa'u n-shaqqat" (84) and 
prostrated. On my inquiring, he said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) (when he recited 
that Sura) and I will go on doing it till I meet him."
Bukhari:767 Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey and recited in one of the first two rak`at of the `Isha' prayer "Wa t-teeni 
wa z-zaitun." (95)
Bukhari:768 Narrated Abu Rafi`:Once I prayed the `Isha' prayer with Abu Huraira and he recited, "Idha s-samaa'u n-shaqqat" (84) and 
prostrated. I said, "What is that?" He said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim, (the Prophet) (when he 
recited that Sura) and I will go on doing it till I meet him."
Bukhari:769 Narrated Al-Bara:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting wa t-teeni wa z-zaitun" (95) in the `Isha' prayer, and I never heard a 
sweeter voice or a better way of recitation than that of the Prophet.
Bukhari:770 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:`Umar said to Sa`d, "The people complained against you in everything, even in prayer." Sa`d replied, 
"Really I used to prolong the first two rak`at and shorten the last two and I will never shorten the 
prayer in which I follow Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." `Umar said, "You are telling the truth and that is what I 
think a tout you."
Bukhari:771 Narrated Saiyar bin Salama:My father and I went to Abu Barza-al-Aslami to ask him about the stated times for the prayers. He 
replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Zuhr prayer when the sun just declined from its highest 
position at noon; the `Asr at a time when if a man went to the farthest place in Medina (after praying) 
he would find the sun still hot (bright). (The sub narrator said: I have forgotten what Abu Barza said 
about the Maghrib prayer). The Prophet (ﷺ) never found any harm in delaying the `Isha' prayer to the first 
third of the night and he never liked to sleep before it and to talk after it. He used to offer the morning 
prayer at a time when after finishing it one could recognize the person sitting beside him and used to 
recite between 60 to 100 verses in one or both the rak`at."
Bukhari:772 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Qur'an is recited in every prayer and in those prayers in which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited aloud for 
us, we recite aloud in the same prayers for you; and the prayers in which the Prophet (ﷺ) recited quietly, 
we recite quietly. If you recite "Al-Fatiha" only it is sufficient but if you recite something else in 
addition, it is better.
Bukhari:773 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) set out with the intention of going to Suq `Ukaz (market of `Ukaz) along with some of his 
companions. At the same time, a barrier was put between the devils and the news of heaven. Fire 
commenced to be thrown at them. The Devils went to their people, who asked them, "What is wrong 
with you?" They said, "A barrier has been placed between us and the news of heaven. And fire has 
been thrown at us." They said, "The thing which has put a barrier between you and the news of heaven 
must be something which has happened recently. Go eastward and westward and see what has put a 
barrier between you and the news of heaven." Those who went towards Tuhama came across the 
Prophet at a place called Nakhla and it was on the way to Suq `Ukaz and the Prophet (ﷺ) was offering the 
Fajr prayer with his companions. When they heard the Qur'an they listened to it and said, "By Allah, 
this is the thing which has put a barrier between us and the news of heaven." They went to their people 
and said, "O our people; verily we have heard a wonderful recital (Qur'an) which shows the true path; 
we believed in it and would not ascribe partners to our Lord." Allah revealed the following verses to 
his Prophet (Sura 'Jinn') (72): "Say: It has been revealed to me." And what was revealed to him was 
the conversation of the Jinns.
Bukhari:774 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited aloud in the prayers in which he was ordered to do so and quietly in the prayers in 
which he was ordered to do so. "And your Lord is not forgetful." "Verily there was a good example 
for you in the ways of the Prophet."
Bukhari:775 Narrated Abu Wa'il:A man came to Ibn Mas`ud and said, "I recited the Mufassal (Suras) at night in one rak`a." Ibn 
Mas`ud said, "This recitation is (too quick) like the recitation of poetry. I know the identical Suras 
which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite in pairs." Ibn Mas`ud then mentioned 20 Mufassal Suras including 
two Suras from the family of (i.e. those verses which begin with) Ha, Meem [??] (which the Prophet (ﷺ) 
used to recite) in each rak`a.
Bukhari:776 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) uses to recite Al-Fatiha followed by another Sura in the first two rak`at 
of the prayer and used to recite only Al-Fatiha in the last two rak`at of the Zuhr prayer. Sometimes a 
verse or so was audible and he used to prolong the first rak`a more than the second and used to do the 
same in the `Asr and Fajr prayers."
Bukhari:777 Narrated Abu Ma`mar:We said to Khabbab "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite in Zuhr and `Asr prayers?" He replied in the 
affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know about it?" He said, "By the movement of his 
beard."
Bukhari:778 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha along with another Sura in the first two rak`at of 
the Zuhr and `Asr prayers. A verse or so was audible at times and he used to prolong the first rak`a."
Bukhari:779 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to prolong the first rak`a of the Zuhr prayer and shorten the second 
one and used to do the same in the Fajr prayer."
Bukhari:780 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say Amin" when the Imam says it and if the Amin of any one of you coincides 
with that of the angels then all his past sins will be forgiven." Ibn Shihab said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used 
to Say "Amin."
Bukhari:781 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you says, "Amin" and the angels in the heavens say "Amin" and 
the former coincides with the latter, all his past sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:782 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Say Amen when the Imam says 'Ghairi l-maghdubi `alaihim wala d-daalleen' 
(not the path of those who earn Your Anger (such as Jews) nor of those who go astray (such as 
Christians)); all the past sins of the person whose saying (of Amin) coincides with that of the angels, 
will be forgiven".
Bukhari:783 Narrated Abu Bakra:I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque while he was bowing in prayer and I too bowed before joining the 
row mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said to me, "May Allah increase your love for the good. But do 
not repeat it again (bowing in that way).
Bukhari:784 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:I offered the prayer with `Ali in Basra and he made us remember the prayer which we used to pray 
with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Ali said Takbir on each rising and bowing.
Bukhari:785 Narrated Abu Salama:When Abu Huraira led us in prayer he used to say Takbir on each bowing and rising. On the 
completion of the prayer he used to say, "My prayer is more similar to the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
than that of anyone of you."
Bukhari:786 Narrated Mutarrif bin `Abdullah:`Imran bin Husain and I offered the prayer behind `Ali bin Abi Talib. When `Ali prostrated, he said 
the Takbir, when he raised his head, he said the Takbir and when he got up for the third rak`a he said 
the Takbir. On completion of the prayer `Imran took my hand and said, "This (i.e. `Ali) made me 
remember the prayer of Muhammad" Or he said, "He led us in a prayer like that of Muhammad."
Bukhari:787 Narrated `Ikrima:I saw a person praying at Muqam-Ibrahim (the place of Abraham by the Ka`ba) and he was saying 
Takbir on every bowing, rising, standing and sitting. I asked Ibn `Abbas (about this prayer). He 
admonished me saying: "Isn't that the prayer of the Prophet?"
Bukhari:788 Narrated `Ikrima:I prayed behind a Sheikh at Mecca and he said twenty two Takbirs (during the prayer). I told Ibn 
`Abbas that he (i.e. that Sheikh) was foolish. Ibn `Abbas admonished me and said, "This is the 
tradition of Abul-Qasim."
Bukhari:789 And narrated Abu Huraira:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood for the prayer, 
he said Takbir on starting the prayer and then on bowing. On rising from bowing he said, "Sami`a llahu 
liman hamidah," and then while standing straight he used to say, "Rabbana laka-l hamd" (Al- 
Laith said, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), 'Wa laka l-hamd'." He used to say Takbir on prostrating and on raising 
his head from prostration; again he would Say Takbir on prostrating and raising his head. He would 
then do the same in the whole of the prayer till it was completed. On rising from the second rak`a 
(after sitting for at-Tahiyyat), he used to say Takbir.
Bukhari:790 Narrated Mus`ab bin Sa`d:I offered prayer beside my father and approximated both my hands and placed them in between the 
knees. My father told me not to do so and said, "We used to do the same but we were forbidden (by 
the Prophet) to do it and were ordered to place the hands on the knees."
Bukhari:791 Narrated Zaid bin Wahb:Hudhaifa saw a person who was not performing the bowing and prostration perfectly. He said to him, 
"You have not prayed and if you should die you would die on a religion other than that of 
Muhammad."
Bukhari:792 Narrated Al-Bara:The bowing, the prostration the sitting in between the two prostrations and the standing after the 
bowing of the Prophet (ﷺ) but not qiyam (standing in the prayer) and qu`ud (sitting in the prayer) used to 
be approximately equal (in duration).
Bukhari:793 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) entered the mosque, a man came in, offered the prayer and greeted the Prophet. The 
Prophet returned his greeting and said to him, "Go back and pray again for you have not prayed." The 
man offered the prayer again, came back and greeted the Prophet. He said to him thrice, "Go back and 
pray again for you have not prayed." The man said, "By Him Who has sent you with the truth! I do 
not know a better way of praying. Kindly teach Me how to pray." He said, "When you stand for the 
prayer, say Takbir and then recite from the Qur'an what you know and then bow with calmness till 
you feel at ease, then rise from bowing till you stand straight. Afterwards prostrate calmly till you feel 
at ease and then raise (your head) and sit with Calmness till you feel at ease and then prostrate with 
calmness till you feel at ease in prostration and do the same in the whole of your prayer."
Bukhari:794 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say in his bowing and prostrations, "Subhanaka l-lahumma Rabbana wa 
bihamdika; Allahumma ghfir li.' (Exalted [from unbecoming attributes] Are you O Allah our Lord, 
and by Your praise [do I exalt you]. O Allah! Forgive me).
Bukhari:795 Narrated Abu Huraira:When the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah," (Allah heard those who sent praises to Him), 
he would say, "Rabbana wa laka l-hamd." On bowing and raising his head from it the Prophet (ﷺ) used to 
say Takbir. He also used to say Takbir on rising after the two prostrations. (See Hadith No. 656).
Bukhari:796 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam says, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah," you should say, 
"Allahumma Rabbana laka l-hamd." And if the saying of any one of you coincides with that of the 
angels, all his past sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:797 Narrated Abu Salama:Abu Hurairah said, "No doubt, my Salat is similar to that of the Prophet (ﷺ)." Abu Hurairah used to recite Qunut after saying Sami' Allahu liman hamida in the last Rak'a of the Zuhr, Isha and Fajr Prayers. He would ask Allah's Forgiveness for the true believers and curse the disbelievers.
Bukhari:798 Narrated Anas:The qunut [supplication before going down for prostration] used to be recited in the Maghrib and the 
Fajr prayers.
Bukhari:799 Narrated Rifa`a bin Rafi` Az-Zuraqi:One day we were praying behind the Prophet. When he raised his head from bowing, he said, "Sami`a 
l-lahu liman hamidah." A man behind him said, "Rabbana wa laka l-hamdu, hamdan kathiran taiyiban 
mubarakan fihi" (O our Lord! All the praises are for You, many good and blessed praises). When the 
Prophet completed the prayer, he asked, "Who has said these words?" The man replied, "I." The 
Prophet said, "I saw over thirty angels competing to write it first." Prophet rose (from bowing) and 
stood straight till all the vertebrae of his spinal column came to a natural position.
Bukhari:800 Narrated Thabit:Anas used to demonstrate to us the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) and while demonstrating, he used to raise his 
head from bowing and stand so long that we would say that he had forgotten (the prostration).
Bukhari:801 Narrated Al-Bara':The bowing, the prostrations, the period of standing after bowing and the interval between the two 
prostrations of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be equal in duration .
Bukhari:802 Narrated Aiyub:Abu Qilaba said, "Malik bin Huwairith used to demonstrate to us the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) at times 
other than that of the compulsory prayers. So (once) he stood up for prayer and performed a perfect 
Qiyam (standing and reciting from the Holy Qur'an) and then bowed and performed bowing perfectly; 
then he raised his head and stood straight for a while." Abu Qilaba added, "Malik bin Huwairith in 
that demonstration prayed like this Sheikh of ours, Abu Yazid." Abu, Yazid used to sit (for a while) 
on raising his head from the second prostration before getting up.
Bukhari:803 Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Abdur Rahman Ibn Harith bin Hisham and Abu Salama bin `Abdur Rahman:Abu Huraira used to say Takbir in all the prayers, compulsory and optional -- in the month of 
Ramadan or other months. He used to say Takbir on standing for prayer and on bowing; then he 
would say, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah," and before prostrating he would say "Rabbana wa laka lhamd." 
Then he would say Takbir on prostrating and on raising his head from the prostration, then 
another Takbir on prostrating (for the second time), and on raising his head from the prostration. He 
also would say the Takbir on standing from the second rak`a. He used to do the same in every rak`a 
till he completed the prayer. On completion of the prayer, he would say, "By Him in Whose Hands my 
soul is! No doubt my prayer is closer to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) than yours, and this was His prayer till 
he left this world."
Bukhari:804 And Abu Huraira said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised his head from (bowing) he 
used to say "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah, Rabbana wa laka l-hamd." He Would invoke Allah for 
some people by naming them:"O Allah! Save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid and Salama bin Hisham and 
`Aiyash bin Abi Rabi`a and the weak and the helpless people among the faithful believers O Allah! Be 
hard on the tribe of Mudar and let them suffer from famine years like that of the time of Joseph." In 
those days the Eastern section of the tribe of Mudar was against the Prophet.
Bukhari:805 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell from a horse and the right side of his body was injured. We went to inquire about 
his health meanwhile it was time for the prayer and he led the prayer sitting and we also prayed while 
sitting. On completion of the prayer he said, "The Imam is to be followed; say Takbir when he says it; 
bow when he bows; rise when he rises and when he says "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah," say, 
"Rabbana wa laka l-hamd", and prostrate if he prostrates." Sufyan narrated the same from Ma`mar. 
Ibn Juraij said that his (the Prophet's) right leg had been injured.
Bukhari:806 Narrated Abu Huraira:The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" He replied, 
"Do you have any doubt in seeing the full moon on a clear (not cloudy) night?" They replied, "No, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Do you have any doubt in seeing the sun when there are no clouds?" They 
replied in the negative. He said, "You will see Allah (your Lord) in the same way. On the Day of 
Resurrection, people will be gathered and He will order the people to follow what they used to 
worship. So some of them will follow the sun, some will follow the moon, and some will follow other 
deities; and only this nation (Muslims) will be left with its hypocrites. Allah will come to them and 
say, 'I am Your Lord.' They will say, 'We shall stay in this place till our Lord comes to us and when 
our Lord will come, we will recognize Him. Then Allah will come to them again and say, 'I am your 
Lord.' They will say, 'You are our Lord.' Allah will call them, and As-Sirat (a bridge) will be laid 
across Hell and I (Muhammad) shall be the first amongst the Apostles to cross it with my followers. 
Nobody except the Apostles will then be able to speak and they will be saying then, 'O Allah! Save us. 
O Allah Save us.' 
There will be hooks like the thorns of Sa'dan [??] in Hell. Have you seen the thorns of Sa'dan [??]?" 
The people said, "Yes." He said, "These hooks will be like the thorns of Sa'dan [??] but nobody except 
Allah knows their greatness in size and these will entangle the people according to their deeds; some 
of them will fall and stay in Hell forever; others will receive punishment (torn into small pieces) and 
will get out of Hell, till when Allah intends mercy on whomever He likes amongst the people of Hell, 
He will order the angels to take out of Hell those who worshipped none but Him alone. The angels 
will take them out by recognizing them from the traces of prostrations, for Allah has forbidden the 
(Hell) fire to eat away those traces. So they will come out of the Fire, it will eat away from the whole 
of the human body except the marks of the prostrations. At that time they will come out of the Fire as 
mere skeletons. The Water of Life will be poured on them and as a result they will grow like the seeds 
growing on the bank of flowing water. 
Then when Allah had finished from the Judgments amongst his creations, one man will be left 
between Hell and Paradise and he will be the last man from the people of Hell to enter paradise. He 
will be facing Hell, and will say, 'O Allah! Turn my face from the fire as its wind has dried me and its 
steam has burnt me.' Allah will ask him, "Will you ask for anything more in case this favor is granted 
to you?' He will say, "No by Your (Honor) Power!" And he will give to his Lord (Allah) what he will 
of the pledges and the covenants. Allah will then turn his face from the Fire. When he will face 
Paradise and will see its charm, he will remain quiet as long as Allah will. He then will say, 'O my 
Lord! Let me go to the gate of Paradise.' Allah will ask him, 'Didn't you give pledges and make 
covenants (to the effect) that you would not ask for anything more than what you requested at first?' 
He will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most wretched, amongst Your creatures.' Allah will say, 
'If this request is granted, will you then ask for anything else?' He will say, 'No! By Your Power! I 
shall not ask for anything else.' Then he will give to his Lord what He will of the pledges and the 
covenants. 
Allah will then let him go to the gate of Paradise. On reaching then and seeing its life, charm, and 
pleasure, he will remain quiet as long as Allah wills and then will say, 'O my Lord ! Let me enter 
Paradise.' Allah will say, May Allah be merciful unto you, O son of Adam! How treacherous you are! 
Haven't you made covenants and given pledges that you will not ask for anything more that what you 
have been given?' He will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most wretched amongst Your 
creatures.' So Allah will laugh and allow him to enter Paradise and will ask him to request as much as 
he likes. He will do so till all his desires have been fulfilled . Then Allah will say, 'Request more of 
such and such things.' Allah will remind him and when all his desires and wishes; have been fulfilled, 
Allah will say "All this is granted to you and a similar amount besides." Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri, said to 
Abu Huraira, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'That is for you and ten times more like it.' "Abu 
Huraira said, "I do not remember from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except (his saying), 'All this is granted to you 
and a similar amount besides." Abu Sa`id said, "I heard him saying, 'That is for you and ten times 
more the like of it."
Bukhari:807 Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer prayer he used to keep arms away (from the body) so that the 
whiteness of his armpits was visible.
Bukhari:808 Narrated Abu Wail:Hudhaifa said, "I saw a person not performing his bowing and prostrations perfectly. When he 
completed the prayer, I told him that he had not prayed." I think that Hudhaifa added (i.e. said to the 
man), "Had you died, you would have died on a tradition other than that of the Prophet (ﷺ) Muhammad."
Bukhari:809 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was ordered (by Allah) to prostrate on seven parts and not to tuck up the clothes or hair 
(while praying). Those parts are: the forehead (along with the tip of nose), both hands, both knees, and 
(toes of) both feet.
Bukhari:810 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We have been ordered to prostrates on seven bones and not to tuck up the clothes 
or hair."
Bukhari:811 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:(He was not a liar) We used to pray behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he said, "Sami`a l-lahu liman 
hamidah", none of us would bend his back (to go for prostration) till the Prophet (ﷺ) had placed his, 
forehead on the ground.
Bukhari:812 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to prostrate on seven bones i.e. on the forehead along with the 
tip of the nose and the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed towards his nose, both hands, both knees and the toes of both 
feet and not to gather the clothes or the hair."
Bukhari:813 Narrated Abu Salama:Once I went to Abu- Sa`id Al-Khudri and asked him, "Won't you come with us to the date-palm trees 
to have a talk?" So Abu Sa`id went out and I asked him, "Tell me what you heard from the Prophet (ﷺ) 
about the Night of Qadr." Abu Sa`id replied, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed I`tikaf (seclusion) on 
the first ten days of the month of Ramadan and we did the same with him. Gabriel came to him and 
said, 'The night you are looking for is ahead of you.' So the Prophet (ﷺ) performed the I`tikaf in the 
middle (second) ten days of the month of Ramadan and we too performed I`tikaf with him. Gabriel 
came to him and said, 'The night which you are looking for is ahead of you.' In the morning of the 
20th of Ramadan the Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon saying, 'Whoever has performed I`tikaf with me 
should continue it. I have been shown the Night of "Qadr", but have forgotten its date, but it is in the 
odd nights of the last ten nights. I saw in my dream that I was prostrating in mud and water.' In those 
days the roof of the mosque was made of branches of date-palm trees. At that time the sky was clear 
and no cloud was visible, but suddenly a cloud came and it rained. The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the prayer 
and I saw the traces of mud on the forehead and on the nose of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). So it was the 
confirmation of that dream."
Bukhari:814 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The people used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) tying their Izars around their necks because of their small 
sizes and the women were directed that they should not raise their heads from the prostrations till the 
men had sat straight.
Bukhari:815 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was ordered to prostrate on seven bony parts and not to tuck up his clothes or hair.
Bukhari:816 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to prostrate on seven (bones) and not to tuck up the hair or 
garment."
Bukhari:817 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say frequently in his bowing and prostrations "Subhanaka l-lahumma Rabbana 
wa bihamdika, Allahumma ghfir li" (Exalted [from unbecoming attributes] Are you O Allah our Lord, 
and by Your praise [do I exalt you]. O Allah! Forgive me). In this way [??] he was acting on what was 
explained to him in the Holy Qur'an.
Bukhari:818 Narrated Abu Qilaba:Once Malik bin Huwairith said to his friends, "Shall I show you how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer his 
prayers?" And it was not the time for any of the compulsory congregational prayers. So he stood up 
(for the prayer) bowed and said the Takbir, then he raised his head and remained standing for a while 
and then prostrated and raised his head for a while (sat up for a while). He prayed like our Sheikh 
`Amr Ibn Salama. (Aiyub said, "The latter used to do a thing which I did not see the people doing i.e. 
he used to sit between the third and the fourth rak`a). Malik bin Huwairith said, "We came to the 
Prophet (after embracing Islam) and stayed with him. He said to us, 'When you go back to your 
families, pray such and such a prayer at such and such a time, pray such and such a prayer at such and 
such a time, and when there is the time for the prayer then only of you should pronounce the Adhan 
for the prayer and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Bukhari:819 Narrated Abu Qilaba:Once Malik bin Huwairith said to his friends, "Shall I show you how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer his 
prayers?" And it was not the time for any of the compulsory congregational prayers. So he stood up 
(for the prayer) bowed and said the Takbir, then he raised his head and remained standing for a while 
and then prostrated and raised his head for a while (sat up for a while). He prayed like our Sheikh 
`Amr Ibn Salama. (Aiyub said, "The latter used to do a thing which I did not see the people doing i.e. 
he used to sit between the third and the fourth rak`a). Malik bin Huwairith said, "We came to the 
Prophet (after embracing Islam) and stayed with him. He said to us, 'When you go back to your 
families, pray such and such a prayer at such and such a time, pray such and such a prayer at such and 
such a time, and when there is the time for the prayer then only of you should pronounce the Adhan 
for the prayer and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Bukhari:820 Narrated Al-Bara':The time taken by the Prophet (ﷺ) in prostrations, bowing, and the sitting interval between the two 
prostrations was about the same.
Bukhari:821 Narrated Thabit:Anas said, "I will leave no stone unturned in making you offer the prayer as I have seen the Prophet (ﷺ) 
making us offer it." Anas used to do a thing which I have not seen you doing. He used to stand after 
the bowing for such a long time that one would think that he had forgotten (the prostrations) and he 
used to sit in-between the prostrations so long that one would think that he had forgotten the second 
prostration.
Bukhari:822 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be straight in the prostrations and none of you should put his forearms on the 
ground (in the prostration) like a dog."
Bukhari:823 Narrated Malik bin Huwairith Al-Laithi:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying and in the odd rak`at, he used to sit for a moment before getting up.
Bukhari:824 Narrated Aiyub:Abu Qilaba said, "Malik bin Huwairith came to us and led us in the prayer in this mosque of ours and 
said, 'I lead you in prayer but I do not want to offer the prayer but just to show you how Allah's 
Apostle performed his prayers." I asked Abu Qilaba, "How was the prayer of Malik bin Huwairith?" 
He replied, "Like the prayer of this Sheikh of ours-- i.e. `Amr bin Salima." That Sheikh used to 
pronounce the Takbir perfectly and when he raised his head from the second prostration he would sit 
for a while and then support himself on the ground and get up.
Bukhari:825 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith:Abu Sa`id led us in the prayer and said the Takbir aloud on arising from the prostration, and on 
prostrating, on rising again, and on getting up from the second rak`a. Abu Sa`id said, "I saw the 
Prophet doing the same."
Bukhari:826 Narrated Mutarrif:`Imran and I prayed behind `Ali bin Abi Talib and he said Takbir on prostrating, on rising and on 
getting up after the two rak`at (i.e. after the second rak`a). When the prayer was finished, `Imran took 
me by the hand and said, "He (`Ali) has prayed the prayer of Muhammad" (or said, "He made us 
remember the prayer of Muhammad).
Bukhari:827 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abdullah:I saw `Abdullah bin `Umar crossing his legs while sitting in the prayer and I, a mere youngster in 
those days, did the same. Ibn `Umar forbade me to do so, and said, "The proper way is to keep the 
right foot propped up and bend the left in the prayer." I said questioningly, "But you are doing so 
(crossing the legs)." He said, "My feet cannot bear my weight."
Bukhari:828 Narrated Muhammad bin `Amr bin `Ata':I was sitting with some of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we were discussing about the way of 
praying of the Prophet. Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi said, "I remember the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) better 
than any one of you. I saw him raising both his hands up to the level of the shoulders on saying the 
Takbir; and on bowing he placed his hands on both knees and bent his back straight, then he stood up 
straight from bowing till all the vertebrate took their normal positions. In prostrations, he placed both 
his hands on the ground with the forearms away from the ground and away from his body, and his toes 
were facing the Qibla. On sitting In the second rak`a he sat on his left foot and propped up the right 
one; and in the last rak`a he pushed his left foot forward and kept the other foot propped up and sat 
over the buttocks."
Bukhari:829 Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:(he was from the tribe of Uzd Shanu'a [??] and was the ally of the tribe of `Abdul-Manaf and was one 
of the companions of the Prophet): Once the Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer and stood up after the 
second rak`a and did not sit down. The people stood up with him. When the prayer was about to end 
and the people were waiting for him to say the Taslim, he said Takbir while sitting and prostrated 
twice before saying the Taslim and then he said the Taslim."
Bukhari:830 Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer and got up (after the prostrations of the second rak`a) 
although he should have sat (for the Tashahhud). So at the end of the prayer, he prostrated twice 
while sitting (prostrations of Sahu).
Bukhari:831 Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama:`Abdullah said, "Whenever we prayed behind the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to recite (in sitting) 'Peace be on 
Gabriel, Michael, peace be on so and so. Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) looked back at us and said, 'Allah 
Himself is As-Salam (Peace), and if anyone of you prays then he should say, at-Tahiyatu li l-lahi wa ssalawatu 
wa t-taiyibat. As-salamu `alalika aiyuha n-Nabiyu wa rahmatu l-lahi wa barakatuh. Assalamu 
`alaina wa `ala `ibadi l-lahi s-salihin. (All the compliments, prayers and good things are due to 
Allah; peace be on you, O Prophet, and Allah's mercy and blessings [be on you]. Peace be on us an on 
the pious subjects of Allah). (If you say that, it will reach all the subjects in the heaven and the earth). 
Ash-hadu al-la ilaha illa l-lah, wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan `Abduhu wa Rasuluh. (I testify that 
there is no Deity [worthy of worship] but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is His slave and His 
Apostle).
Bukhari:832 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah in the prayer saying "Allahumma inni 
a`udhu bika min `adhabi l-qabr, wa a`udhu bika min fitnati l-masihi d-dajjal, wa a`udhu bika min 
fitnati l-mahya wa fitnati l-mamat. Allahumma inni a`udhu bika mina l-ma'thami wa l-maghram. (O 
Allah, I seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, from the afflictions of the imposter- 
Messiah, and from the afflictions of life and death. O Allah, I seek refuge with You from sins and 
from debt)." Somebody said to him, "Why do you so frequently seek refuge with Allah from being in 
debt?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "A person in debt tells lies whenever he speaks, and breaks promises 
whenever he makes (them)." `Aisha also narrated: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his prayer seeking refuge 
with Allah from the afflictions of Ad-Dajjal.
Bukhari:833 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah in the prayer saying "Allahumma inni 
a`udhu bika min `adhabi l-qabr, wa a`udhu bika min fitnati l-masihi d-dajjal, wa a`udhu bika min 
fitnati l-mahya wa fitnati l-mamat. Allahumma inni a`udhu bika mina l-ma'thami wa l-maghram. (O 
Allah, I seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, from the afflictions of the imposter- 
Messiah, and from the afflictions of life and death. O Allah, I seek refuge with You from sins and 
from debt)." Somebody said to him, "Why do you so frequently seek refuge with Allah from being in 
debt?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "A person in debt tells lies whenever he speaks, and breaks promises 
whenever he makes (them)." `Aisha also narrated: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his prayer seeking refuge 
with Allah from the afflictions of Ad-Dajjal.
Bukhari:834 Narrated Abu Bakr As-Siddiq:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to teach me an invocation so that I may invoke Allah with it in my prayer. He 
told me to say, "Allahumma inni zalumtu nafsi zulman kathiran, Wala yaghfiru dh-dhunuba illa anta, 
fa ghfir li maghfiratan min `indika, wa r-hamni, innaka anta l-ghafuru r-rahim (O Allah! I have done 
great injustice to myself and none except You forgives sins, so bestow on me a forgiveness from You, 
and Have Mercy on me, You are the Forgiver, the Merciful).
Bukhari:835 Narrated `Abdullah:When we prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to say, "Peace be on Allah from His slaves and peace be on 
so and so." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't say As-Salam be on Allah, for He Himself is As-Salam, but say, 
at-tahiyatu li l-lahi wa s-salawatu wa t-taiyibat. As-salamu `alaika aiyuha n-Nabiyu wa rahmatu l-lahi 
wa barakatuh. As-salamu `alaina wa `ala `ibadi l-lahi s-salihin. (If you say this then it will reach all the 
slaves in heaven or between heaven and earth). Ash-hadu al la-ilaha illa l-lah, wa ash-hadu anna 
Muhammadan `Abduhu wa Rasuluh.' Then select the invocation you like best and recite it." (See 
Hadith No. 794, 795 & 796).
Bukhari:836 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrating in mud and water and saw the mark of mud on his forehead.
Bukhari:837 Narrated Um Salama:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his prayers with Taslim, the women would get up and he would 
stay on for a while in his place before getting up. Ibn Shihab said, "I think (and Allah knows better), 
that the purpose of his stay was that the women might leave before the men who had finished their 
prayer. "
Bukhari:838 Narrated `Itban bin Malik:We prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to finish our prayer with the Taslim along with him.
Bukhari:839 Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi`:I remember Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and also the mouthful of water which he took from a bucket in our house 
and ejected (on me). I heard from `Itban bin Malik Al-Ansari, who was one from Bani Salim, saying, 
"I used to lead my tribe of Bani Salim in prayer. Once I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said to him, 'I have 
weak eyesight and at times the rainwater flood intervenes between me and the mosque of my tribe and 
I wish that you would come to my house and pray at some place so that I could take that place as a 
place for praying (mosque). He said, "Allah willing, I shall do that." Next day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along 
with Abu Bakr, came to my house after the sun had risen high and he asked permission to enter. I gave 
him permission, but he didn't sit till he said to me, "Where do you want me to pray in your house?" I 
pointed to a place in the house where I wanted him to pray. So he stood up for the prayer and we 
aligned behind him. He completed the prayer with Taslim and we did the same simultaneously."
Bukhari:840 Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi`:I remember Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and also the mouthful of water which he took from a bucket in our house 
and ejected (on me). I heard from `Itban bin Malik Al-Ansari, who was one from Bani Salim, saying, 
"I used to lead my tribe of Bani Salim in prayer. Once I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said to him, 'I have 
weak eyesight and at times the rainwater flood intervenes between me and the mosque of my tribe and 
I wish that you would come to my house and pray at some place so that I could take that place as a 
place for praying (mosque). He said, "Allah willing, I shall do that." Next day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along 
with Abu Bakr, came to my house after the sun had risen high and he asked permission to enter. I gave 
him permission, but he didn't sit till he said to me, "Where do you want me to pray in your house?" I 
pointed to a place in the house where I wanted him to pray. So he stood up for the prayer and we 
aligned behind him. He completed the prayer with Taslim and we did the same simultaneously."
Bukhari:841 Narrated Abu Ma`bad:(the freed slave of Ibn `Abbas) Ibn `Abbas told me, "In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) it was the custom to 
celebrate Allah's praises aloud after the compulsory congregational prayers." Ibn `Abbas further said, 
"When I heard the Dhikr, I would learn that the compulsory congregational prayer had ended."
Bukhari:842 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I used to recognize the completion of the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) by hearing Takbir.
Bukhari:843 Narrated Abu Huraira:Some poor people came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "The wealthy people will get higher grades and will 
have permanent enjoyment and they pray like us and fast as we do. They have more money by which 
they perform the Hajj, and `Umra; fight and struggle in Allah's Cause and give in charity." The 
Prophet said, "Shall I not tell you a thing upon which if you acted you would catch up with those who 
have surpassed you? Nobody would overtake you and you would be better than the people amongst 
whom you live except those who would do the same. Say "Subhana l-lah", "Al hamdu li l-lah" and 
"Allahu Akbar" thirty three times each after every (compulsory) prayer." We differed and some of us 
said that we should say, "Subhan-al-lah" thirty three times and "Al hamdu li l-lah" thirty three times 
and "Allahu Akbar" thirty four times. I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "Say, "Subhan-al-lah" and "Al 
hamdu li l-lah" and "Allahu Akbar" all together [??], thirty three times."
Bukhari:844 Narrated Warrad:(the clerk of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba) Once Al-Mughira dictated to me in a letter addressed to 
Muawiya that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say after every compulsory prayer, "La ilaha illa l-lahu wahdahu la 
sharika lahu, lahu l-mulku wa lahu l-hamdu, wa huwa `ala kulli shay'in qadir. Allahumma la mani`a 
lima a`taita, wa la mu`tiya lima mana`ta, wa la yanfa`u dhal-jaddi minka l-jadd. [There is no Deity but 
Allah, Alone, no Partner to Him. His is the Kingdom and all praise, and Omnipotent is he. O Allah! 
Nobody can hold back what you gave, nobody can give what You held back, and no struggler's effort 
can benefit against You]." And Al-Hasan said, "Al-jadd' means prosperity [??]."
Bukhari:845 Narrated Samura bin Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to face us on completion of the prayer.
Bukhari:846 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Fajr prayer at Hudaibiya after a rainy night. On completion of the prayer, he 
faced the people and said, "Do you know what your Lord has said (revealed)?" The people replied, 
"Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "Allah has said, 'In this morning some of my slaves 
remained as true believers and some became non-believers; whoever said that the rain was due to the 
Blessings and the Mercy of Allah had belief in Me and he disbelieves in the stars, and whoever said 
that it rained because of a particular star had no belief in Me but believes in that star.' "
Bukhari:847 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer until midnight and then came to us. Having prayed he 
faced us and said, "The people had prayed and slept but you were in the prayer as long as you were 
waiting for it."
Bukhari:848 Narrated Nafi:Ibn Umar used to offer prayers (Nawafil) at the place where he had offered the compulsory prayer. Al-Qasim (bin Muhammad bin Abi Bakr) did the same. The narration coming from Abu Hurairah (from the Prophet (ﷺ)) forbidding the Imam from offering prayers (optional prayer) at the same place where he was offered the compulsory prayer is incorrect.
Bukhari:849 Narrated Um Salama:"The Prophet (ﷺ) after finishing the prayer with Taslim used to stay at his place for a while." Ibn Shihab 
said, "I think (and Allah knows better), that he used to wait for the departure of the women who had 
prayed." Ibn Shihab wrote that he had heard it from Hind bint Al-Harith Al-Firasiya from Um Salama, 
the wife of the Prophet (Hind was from the companions of Um Salama) who said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) 
finished the prayer with Taslim, the women would depart and enter their houses before Allah's 
Apostle departed."
Bukhari:850 Narrated Um Salama:"The Prophet (ﷺ) after finishing the prayer with Taslim used to stay at his place for a while." Ibn Shihab 
said, "I think (and Allah knows better), that he used to wait for the departure of the women who had 
prayed." Ibn Shihab wrote that he had heard it from Hind bint Al-Harith Al-Firasiya from Um Salama, 
the wife of the Prophet (Hind was from the companions of Um Salama) who said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) 
finished the prayer with Taslim, the women would depart and enter their houses before Allah's 
Apostle departed."
Bukhari:851 Narrated `Uqba:I offered the `Asr prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina. When he had finished the prayer with Taslim, 
he got up hurriedly and went out by crossing the rows of the people to one of the dwellings of his 
wives. The people got scared at his speed . The Prophet (ﷺ) came back and found the people surprised at 
his haste and said to them, "I remembered a piece of gold Lying in my house and I did not like it to 
divert my attention from Allah's worship, so I have ordered it to be distributed (in charity).
Bukhari:852 Narrated `Abdullah:You should not give away a part of your prayer to Satan by thinking that it is necessary to depart (after 
finishing the prayer) from one's right side only; I have seen the Prophet (ﷺ) often leave from the left side.
Bukhari:853 Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the holy battle of Khaibar the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever ate from this plant (i.e. garlic) should 
not enter our mosque."
Bukhari:854 Narrated `Ata':I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever eats (from) this plant (he meant 
garlic) should keep away from our mosque." I said, "What does he mean by that?" He replied, "I think 
he means only raw garlic."
Bukhari:855 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever eats garlic or onion should keep away from our mosque or should remain 
in his house." (Jabir bin `Abdullah, in another narration said, "Once a big pot containing cooked 
vegetables was brought. On finding unpleasant smell coming from it, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, 'What is in 
it?' He was told all the names of the vegetables that were in it. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that it should be 
brought near to some of his companions who were with him. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw it he disliked to 
eat it and said, 'Eat. (I don't eat) for I converse with those whom you don't converse with (i.e. the 
angels).
Bukhari:856 Narrated `Abdul `Aziz:A man asked Anas, "What did you hear from the Prophet (ﷺ) about garlic?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
'Whoever has eaten this plant should neither come near us nor pray with us."
Bukhari:857 Narrated Sulaiman Ash-Shaibani:I heard Ash-Shu`bi saying, "A person who was accompanying the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a grave that was 
separated from the other graves told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) once led the people in the (funeral) prayer 
and the people had aligned behind him. I said, "O Aba `Amr! Who told you about it?" He said, "Ibn `Abbas."
Bukhari:858 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ghusl (taking a bath) on Friday is compulsory for every Muslim reaching the age 
of puberty."
Bukhari:859 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:One night I slept at the house of my aunt Maimuna and the Prophet (ﷺ) slept (too). He got up (for prayer) 
in the last hours of the night and performed a light ablution from a hanging leather skin. (`Amr, the 
sub-narrator described that the ablution was very light). Then he stood up for prayer and I got up too 
and performed the ablution in the same way and joined him on his left side. He pulled me to the right 
and prayed as much as Allah will. Then he lay down and slept and I heard his breath sounds till the 
Mu'adh-dhin came to him to inform him about the (Fajr) prayer. He left with him for the prayer and 
prayed without repeating the ablution. (Sufyan the sub-narrator said: We said to `Amr, "Some people 
say, 'The eyes of the Prophet (ﷺ) sleep but his heart never sleeps.' " `Amr said, "'Ubai bin `Umar said, 'The 
dreams of the Prophets are Divine Inspirations. Then he recited, '(O my son), I have seen in dream that 
I was slaughtering you (offering you in sacrifice).") (37.102)
Bukhari:860 Narrated Anas bin Malik:My grandmother Mulaika invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for a meal which she had prepared specially for him. 
He ate some of it and said, "Get up. I shall lead you in the prayer." I brought a mat that had become 
black owing to excessive use and I sprinkled water on it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on it and prayed two 
rak`at; and the orphan was with me (in the first row), and the old lady stood behind us.
Bukhari:861 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I came riding a she-ass and I, then, had just attained the age of puberty. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was 
leading the people in prayer at Mina facing no wall. I passed in front of the row and let loose the sheass 
for grazing and joined the row and no one objected to my deed.
Bukhari:862 Narrated `Aisha:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer till `Umar informed him that the women and children 
had slept. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out and said: "None from amongst the dwellers of earth have 
prayed this prayer except you." In those days none but the people of Medina prayed.
Bukhari:863 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin `Abis:A person asked Ibn `Abbas, "Have you ever presented yourself at the (`Id) prayer with Allah's 
Apostle?" He replied, "Yes." And had it not been for my kinship (position) with the Prophet (ﷺ) it would 
not have been possible for me to do so (for he was too young). The Prophet (ﷺ) went to the mark near the 
house of Kathir bin As-Salt and delivered a sermon. He then went towards the women. He advised 
and reminded them and asked them to give alms. So the woman would bring her hand near her neck 
and take off her necklace and put it in the garment of Bilal. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) and Bilal came to the 
house."
Bukhari:864 Narrated `Aisha:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer till `Umar informed him that the women and children 
had slept. The Prophet (ﷺ) came out and said, "None except you from amongst the dwellers of earth is 
waiting for this prayer." In those days, there was no prayer except in Medina and they used to pray the 
`Isha' prayer between the disappearance of the twilight and the first third of the night.
Bukhari:865 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If your women ask permission to go to the mosque at night, allow them."
Bukhari:866 Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the women used to get up when they 
finished their compulsory prayers with Taslim. The Prophet (ﷺ) and the men would stay on at their places 
as long as Allah will. When the Prophet (ﷺ) got up, the men would then get up.
Bukhari:867 Narrated `Aisha:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the Fajr prayer, the women would leave covered in their sheets and 
were not recognized owing to the darkness.
Bukhari:868 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada Al-Ansari:My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever I stand for prayer, I want to prolong it but on 
hearing the cries of a child, I would shorten it as I dislike to put its mother in trouble."
Bukhari:869 Narrated `Aisha:Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) known what the women were doing, he would have forbidden them from going to 
the mosque as the women of Bani Israel had been forbidden. Yahya bin Sa`id (a sub-narrator) asked 
`Amra (another sub-narrator), "Were the women of Bani Israel forbidden?" She replied "Yes."
Bukhari:870 Narrated Um Salama:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed the prayer with Taslim, the women used to get up immediately 
and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would remain at his place for someone before getting up. (The sub-narrator (Az- 
Zuhri) said, "We think, and Allah knows better, that he did so, so that the women might leave before 
men could get in touch with them).
Bukhari:871 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the house of Um Sulaim; and I, along with an orphan stood behind him while 
Um Sulaim (stood) behind us.
Bukhari:872 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr prayer when it was still dark and the believing women used to 
return (after finishing their prayer) and nobody could recognize them owing to darkness, or they could 
not recognize one another.
Bukhari:873 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If the wife of any one of you asks permission (to go to the mosque) do not forbid her."
Bukhari:874 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the house of Um Sulaim; and I, along with an orphan stood behind him while Um Sulaim (stood) behind us.
Bukhari:875 Narrated Umm Salama:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed the Salat with Taslim, the women used to get up immediately and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)  would remain at his place for sometime before getting up. The subnarrator (Az-Zuhri) said, "We think, and Allah knows better, that he did so, so that the women might leave before the men could catch up with them."
Bukhari:876 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) saying, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the 
foremost on the Day of Resurrection though the former nations were given the Holy Scriptures before 
us. And this was their day (Friday) the celebration of which was made compulsory for them but they 
differed about it. So Allah gave us the guidance for it (Friday) and all the other people are behind us in 
this respect: the Jews' (holy day is) tomorrow (i.e. Saturday) and the Christians' (is) the day after 
tomorrow (i.e. Sunday)."
Bukhari:877 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Anyone of you attending the Friday (prayers) should take a bath."
Bukhari:878 Narrated Ibn `Umar:While `Umar bin Al-Khattab was standing and delivering the sermon on a Friday, one of the 
companions of the Prophet, who was one of the foremost Muhajirs (emigrants) came. `Umar said to 
him, "What is the time now?" He replied, "I was busy and could not go back to my house till I heard 
the Adhan. I did not perform more than the ablution." Thereupon `Umar said to him, "Did you 
perform only the ablution although you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) used to order us to take a 
bath (on Fridays)?"
Bukhari:879 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every male (Muslim) 
who has attained the age of puberty."
Bukhari:880 Narrated Abu Sa`id:I testify that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every male 
Muslim who has attained the age of puberty and (also) the cleaning of his teeth with Siwak, and the 
using of perfume if it is available." `Amr (a sub-narrator) said, "I confirm that the taking of a bath is 
compulsory, but as for the Siwak and the using of perfume, Allah knows better whether it is 
obligatory or not, but according to the Hadith it is as above.")
Bukhari:881 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Any person who takes a bath on Friday like the bath of Janaba and 
then goes for the prayer (in the first hour i.e. early), it is as if he had sacrificed a camel (in Allah's 
cause); and whoever goes in the second hour it is as if he had sacrificed a cow; and whoever goes in 
the third hour, then it is as if he had sacrificed a horned ram; and if one goes in the fourth hour, then it 
is as if he had sacrificed a hen; and whoever goes in the fifth hour then it is as if he had offered an 
egg. When the Imam comes out (i.e. starts delivering the Khutba), the angels present themselves to 
listen to the Khutba."
Bukhari:882 Narrated Abu Huraira:While `Umar (bin Al-Khattab) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a man entered (the mosque). 
`Umar asked him, "What has detained you from the prayer?" The man said, "It was only that when I 
heard the Adhan I performed ablution (for the prayer)." On that `Umar said, "Did you not hear the 
Prophet saying: 'Anyone of you going out for the Jumua prayer should take a bath'?".
Bukhari:883 Narrated Salman-Al-Farsi:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever takes a bath on Friday, purifies himself as much as he can, then 
uses his (hair) oil or perfumes himself with the scent of his house, then proceeds (for the Jumua 
prayer) and does not separate two persons sitting together (in the mosque), then prays as much as 
(Allah has) written for him and then remains silent while the Imam is delivering the Khutba, his sins 
in-between the present and the last Friday would be forgiven."
Bukhari:884 Narrated Tawus:I said to Ibn `Abbas, "The people are narrating that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take a bath on Friday and wash 
your heads (i.e. take a thorough bath) even though you were not Junub and use perfume'." On that Ibn 
`Abbas replied, "I know about the bath, (i.e. it is essential) but I do not know about the perfume (i.e. 
whether it is essential or not.)
Bukhari:885 Narrated Tawus:Ibn `Abbas mentioned the statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the taking of a bath on Friday and then I 
asked him whether the Prophet (p.b.u.h) had ordered perfume or (hair) oil to be used if they could be 
found in one's house. He (Ibn `Abbas) replied that he did not know about it.
Bukhari:886 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab saw a silken cloak (being sold) at the gate of the Mosque and said to Allah's 
Apostle, "I wish you would buy this to wear on Fridays and also on occasions of the arrivals of the 
delegations." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "This will be worn by a person who will have no share (reward) 
in the Hereafter." Later on similar cloaks were given to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he gave one of them to 
`Umar bin Al-Khattab. On that `Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have given me this cloak 
although on the cloak of Atarid (a cloak merchant who was selling that silken cloak at the gate of the 
mosque) you passed such and such a remark." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "I have not given you this to 
wear". And so `Umar bin Al-Khattab gave it to his pagan brother in Mecca to wear.
Bukhari:887 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had not found it hard for my followers or the people, I would have ordered 
them to clean their teeth with Siwak for every prayer."
Bukhari:888 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have told you repeatedly to use the Siwak. (The Prophet (ﷺ) put emphasis on the use of the Siwak.)
Bukhari:889 Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (p.b.u.h) got up at night (for the night prayer), he used to clean his mouth .
Bukhari:890 Narrated `Aisha:`Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr came holding a Siwak with which he was cleaning his teeth. Allah's 
Apostle looked at him. I requested `Abdur-Rahman to give the Siwak to me and after he gave it to me 
I divided it, chewed it and gave it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Then he cleaned his teeth with it and (at that 
time) he was resting against my chest.
Bukhari:891 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the following in the Fajr prayer of Friday, "Alif, Lam, Mim, Tanzil" (Suratas- 
Sajda #32) and "Hal-ata-ala-l-Insani" (i.e. Surah-Ad-Dahr #76).
Bukhari:892 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The first Jumua prayer which was offered after a Jumua prayer offered at the mosque of Allah's 
Apostle took place in the mosque of the tribe of `Abdul Qais at Jawathi in Bahrain.
Bukhari:893 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "All of you are Guardians." Yunis said: Ruzaiq bin Hukaim wrote to 
Ibn Shihab while I was with him at Wadi-al-Qura saying, "Shall I lead the Jumua prayer?" Ruzaiq was 
working on the land (i.e. farming) and there was a group of Sudanese people and some others with 
him; Ruzaiq was then the Governor of Aila. Ibn Shihab wrote (to Ruzaiq) ordering him to lead the 
Jumua prayer and telling him that Salim told him that `Abdullah bin `Umar had said, "I heard Allah's 
Apostle saying, 'All of you are guardians and responsible for your wards and the things under your 
care. The Imam (i.e. ruler) is the guardian of his subjects and is responsible for them and a man is the 
guardian of his family and is responsible for them. A woman is the guardian of her husband's house 
and is responsible for it. A servant is the guardian of his master's belongings and is responsible for 
them.' I thought that he also said, 'A man is the guardian of his father's property and is responsible for 
it. All of you are guardians and responsible for your wards and the things under your care."
Bukhari:894 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Anyone of you coming for the Jumua prayer should take a bath."
Bukhari:895 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every Muslim who has 
attained the age of puberty."
Bukhari:896 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "We are the last (to come amongst the nations) 
     but (will be) the foremost on the Day of Resurrection. They were given
     the Holy Scripture before us and we were given the Quran after them. 
     And this was the day (Friday) about which they differed and Allah gave
     us the guidance (for that). So tomorrow (i.e. Saturday) is the Jews' 
     (day), and the day after tomorrow (i.e. Sunday) is the Christians'." 
     The Prophet (p.b.u.h) remained silent (for a while) and then said, "It
     is obligatory for every Muslim that he should take a bath once in 
     seven days, when he should wash his head and body."
Bukhari:897 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "We are the last (to come amongst the nations) 
     but (will be) the foremost on the Day of Resurrection. They were given
     the Holy Scripture before us and we were given the Quran after them. 
     And this was the day (Friday) about which they differed and Allah gave
     us the guidance (for that). So tomorrow (i.e. Saturday) is the Jews' 
     (day), and the day after tomorrow (i.e. Sunday) is the Christians'." 
     The Prophet (p.b.u.h) remained silent (for a while) and then said, "It
     is obligatory for every Muslim that he should take a bath once in 
     seven days, when he should wash his head and body."
Bukhari:898 Narrated Abu Huraira through different narrators that the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     said, "It is Allah's right on every Muslim that he should take a bath 
     (at least) once in seven days."
Bukhari:899 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Allow women to go to the Mosques at night."
Bukhari:900 Narrated Ibn `Umar:One of the wives of `Umar (bin Al-Khattab) used to offer the Fajr and the `Isha' prayer in 
congregation in the Mosque. She was asked why she had come out for the prayer as she knew that 
`Umar disliked it, and he has great ghaira (self-respect). She replied, "What prevents him from 
stopping me from this act?" The other replied, "The statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) : 'Do not 
stop Allah's women-slaves from going to Allah's Mosques' prevents him."
Bukhari:901 Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:On a rainy day Ibn `Abbas said to his Mu'adh-dhin, "After saying, 'Ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 
Rasulullah' (I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)), do not say 'Haiya 'Alas-Salat' (come for the 
prayer) but say 'Pray in your houses'." (The man did so). But the people disliked it. Ibn `Abbas said, 
"It was done by one who was much better than I (i.e. the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ). No doubt, the Jumua 
prayer is compulsory but I dislike to put you to task by bringing you out walking in mud and slush."
Bukhari:902 Narrated Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) The people used to come from their abodes and from Al-`Awali (i.e. 
outskirts of Medina up to a distance of four miles or more from Medina). They used to pass through 
dust and used to be drenched with sweat and covered with dust; so sweat used to trickle from them. 
One of them came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was in my house. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I wish that you 
keep yourself clean on this day of yours (i.e. take a bath)."
Bukhari:903 Narrated Yahya bin Sa`id:I asked `Amra about taking a bath on Fridays. She replied, " Aisha said, 'The people used to work (for 
their livelihood) and whenever they went for the Jumua prayer, they used to go to the mosque in the 
same shape as they had been in work. So they were asked to take a bath on Friday.' "
Bukhari:904 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Jumua prayer immediately after midday.
Bukhari:905 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to offer the Jumua prayer early and then have an afternoon nap.
Bukhari:906 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the prayer earlier if it was very cold; and if it was very hot he used to delay 
the prayer, i.e. the Jumua prayer.
Bukhari:907 Narrated Abu `Abs:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Anyone whose feet are covered with dust in Allah's cause, shall be saved 
by Allah from the Hell-Fire."
Bukhari:908 Narrated Abu Huraira:heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s (p.b.u.h) saying, "If the prayer is started do not run for it but just walk for it 
calmly and pray whatever you get, and complete whatever is missed. "
Bukhari:909 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada on the authority of his father:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Do not stand up (for prayer) unless you see me, and observe calmness and 
solemnity".
Bukhari:910 Narrated Salman Al-Farsi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Anyone who takes a bath on Friday and cleans himself as much as he 
can and puts oil (on his hair) or scents himself; and then proceeds for the prayer and does not force his 
way between two persons (assembled in the mosque for the Friday prayer), and prays as much as is 
written for him and remains quiet when the Imam delivers the Khutba, all his sins in between the 
present and the last Friday will be forgiven."
Bukhari:911 Narrated Ibn Juraij:I heard Nazi' saying, "Ibn `Umar, said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should make another man to 
get up to sit in his place' ". I said to Nafi`, 'Is it for Jumua prayer only?' He replied, "For Jumua prayer 
and any other (prayer)."
Bukhari:912 Narrated As-Saib bin Yazid:In the lifetime of the Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar, the Adhan for the Jumua prayer used to be 
pronounced when the Imam sat on the pulpit. But during the Caliphate of `Uthman when the Muslims 
increased in number, a third Adhan at Az-Zaura' was added. Abu `Abdullah said, "Az-Zaura' is a place 
in the market of Medina."
Bukhari:913 Narrated As-Saib bin Yazid:The person who increased the number of Adhans for the Jumua prayers to three was `Uthman bin 
`Affan and it was when the number of the (Muslim) people of Medina had increased. In the lifetime of 
the Prophet (ﷺ) there was only one Mu'adh-dhin and the Adhan used to be pronounced only after the 
Imam had taken his seat (i.e. on the pulpit).
Bukhari:914 Narrated Abu Umama bin Sahl bin Hunaif:I heard Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (repeating the statements of the Adhan) while he was sitting on the 
pulpit. When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan saying, "Allahu-Akbar, Allahu Akbar", 
Muawiya said: "Allah Akbar, Allahu Akbar." And when the Mu'adh-dhin said, "Ash-hadu an la ilaha 
illal-lah (I testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah)", Muawiya said, "And (so do) I". 
When he said, "Ash-hadu anna Muhammadan Rasulullah" (I testify that Muhammad is Allah's 
Apostle), Muawiya said, "And (so do) I". When the Adhan was finished, Muawiya said, "O people, 
when the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on this very pulpit saying what 
you have just heard me saying".
Bukhari:915 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid I:`Uthman bin `Affan introduced the second Adhan on Fridays when the number of the people in the 
mosque increased. Previously the Adhan on Fridays used to be pronounced only after the Imam had 
taken his seat (on the pulpit).
Bukhari:916 Narrated Az-Zuhri:I heard As-Saib bin Yazid, saying, "In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Abu Bakr and `Umar, the 
Adhan for the Jumua prayer used to be pronounced after the Imam had taken his seat on the pulpit. 
But when the people increased in number during the caliphate of `Uthman, he introduced a third 
Adhan (on Friday for the Jumua prayer) and it was pronounced at Az-Zaura' and that new state of 
affairs remained so in the succeeding years.
Bukhari:917 Narrated Abu Hazim bin Dinar:Some people went to Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi and told him that they had different opinions regarding 
the wood of the pulpit. They asked him about it and he said, "By Allah, I know of what wood the 
pulpit was made, and no doubt I saw it on the very first day when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took his seat on it. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for such and such an Ansari woman (and Sahl mentioned her name) and said to 
her, 'Order your slave-carpenter to prepare for me some pieces of wood (i.e. pulpit) on which I may sit 
at the time of addressing the people.' So she ordered her slave-carpenter and he made it from the 
tamarisk of the forest and brought it (to the woman). The woman sent that (pulpit) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
who ordered it to be placed here. Then I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praying on it and then bowed on it. Then 
he stepped back, got down and prostrated on the ground near the foot of the pulpit and again ascended 
the pulpit. After finishing the prayer he faced the people and said, 'I have done this so that you may 
follow me and learn the way I pray.' "
Bukhari:918 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stand by a stem of a date-palm tree (while delivering a sermon). When the pulpit 
was placed for him we heard that stem crying like a pregnant she-camel till the Prophet (ﷺ) got down from 
the pulpit and placed his hand over it.
Bukhari:919 Narrated Salim:My father said , "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the Khutba on the pulpit and he said, 'Whoever comes 
for the Jumua prayer should take a bath (before coming).' "
Bukhari:920 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to deliver the Khutba while standing and then he would sit, then stand 
again as you do now-a-days.
Bukhari:921 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:One day the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on the pulpit and we sat around him.
Bukhari:922 Narrated Fatima bint Al-Mundhir:Asma' bint Abi Bakr As-Siddiq said, "I went to 'Aishah and the people were offering Salat. I asked her, 'What is wrong with the people ?' She pointed towards the sky with her head. I asked her, 'Is there a sign ?' 'Aishah nodded with her head meaning 'Yes'." Asma' added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prolonged the Salat to such an extent that I fainted. There was a waterskin by my side and I opened it and poured some water on my head. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished Salat, and the solar eclipse had cleared, the Prophet (ﷺ) addressed the people and praised Allah as He deserves and said, 'Amma ba'du'." Asma' further said, "Some Ansari women started talking, so I turned to them in order to make them quiet. I asked 'Aishah what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said. 'Aishah said: 'He said, 'I have seen things at this place of mine which were never shown to me before; (I have seen) even Paradise and Hell. And, no doubt it has been revealed to me that you (people) will be put in trial in your graves like or nearly like the trial of Masih Ad-Dajjal. (The angels) will come to everyone of you and ask him, 'What do you know about this man (Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ)) ?" The faithful believer or firm believer (Hisham was in doubt which word the Prophet (ﷺ) used), will say, 'He is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he is Muhammad (ﷺ) who came to us with clear evidences and guidance. So we believed him, accepted his teachings and followed and trusted his teaching.' Then the angels will tell him to sleep (in peace) as they have come to know that he was a believer. But the hypocrite or a doubtful person (Hisham is not sure as to which word the Prophet (ﷺ) used), will be asked what he knew about this man (Prophet Muhammed (ﷺ)). He will say, 'I do not know but I heard the people saying something (about him) so I said the same' " Hisham added, "Fatima told me that she remembered that narration completely by heart except that she said about the hypocrite or a doubtful person that he will be punished severely."
Bukhari:923 Narrated `Amr bin Taghlib:Some property or something was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he distributed it. He gave to some 
men and ignored the others. Later he got the news of his being admonished by those whom he had 
ignored. So he glorified and praised Allah and said, "Amma ba'du. By Allah, I may give to a man and 
ignore another, although the one whom I ignore is more beloved to me than the one whom I give. But 
I give to some people as I feel that they have no patience and no contentment in their hearts and I 
leave those who are patient and self-content with the goodness and wealth which Allah has put into 
their hearts and `Amr bin Taghlib is one of them." `Amr added, By Allah! Those words of Allah's 
Apostle are more beloved to me than the best red camels.
Bukhari:924 Narrated Aisha:Once in the middle of the night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) went out and prayed in the mosque and some 
men prayed with him. The next morning the people spoke about it and so more people gathered and 
prayed with him (in the second night). They circulated the news in the morning, and so, on the third 
night the number of people increased greatly. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) came out and they prayed 
behind him. On the fourth night the mosque was overwhelmed by the people till it could not 
accommodate them. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out only for the Fajr prayer and when he finished the 
prayer, he faced the people and recited "Tashah-hud" (I testify that none has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah and that Muhammad is His Apostle), and then said, "Amma ba'du. Verily your 
presence (in the mosque at night) was not hidden from me, but I was afraid that this prayer (Prayer of 
Tahajjud) might be made compulsory and you might not be able to carry it out."
Bukhari:925 Narrated Abu Hummaid As-Sa`idi:One night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) stood up after the prayer and recited "Tashah-hud" and then 
praised Allah as He deserved and said, "Amma ba'du."
Bukhari:926 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up for delivering the Khutba and I heard him after "Tashah-hud" saying 
"Amma ba'du."
Bukhari:927 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) ascended the pulpit and it was the last gathering in which he took part. He was 
covering his shoulder with a big cloak and binding his head with an oily bandage. He glorified and 
praised Allah and said, "O people! Come to me." So the people came and gathered around him and he 
then said, "Amma ba'du." "From now onward the Ansar will decrease and other people will increase. 
So anybody who becomes a ruler of the followers of Muhammad and has the power to harm or benefit 
people then he should accept the good from the benevolent amongst them (Ansar) and overlook the 
faults of their wrong-doers."
Bukhari:928 Narrated `Abdullah Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver two Khutbas and sit in between them.
Bukhari:929 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When it is a Friday, the angels stand at the gate of the mosque and keep on writing 
the names of the persons coming to the mosque in succession according to their arrivals. The example 
of the one who enters the mosque in the earliest hour is that of one offering a camel (in sacrifice). The 
one coming next is like one offering a cow and then a ram and then a chicken and then an egg 
respectively. When the Imam comes out (for Jumua prayer) they (i.e. angels) fold their papers and 
listen to the Khutba."
Bukhari:930 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A person entered the mosque while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said to him, "Have you prayed?" The man replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Get up and pray 
two rak`at."
Bukhari:931 Narrated Jabir:A man entered the Mosque while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, 
"Have you prayed?" The man replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Pray two rak`at."
Bukhari:932 Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a man stood up and said, "O, Allah's 
Apostle! The livestock and the sheep are dying, so pray to Allah for rain." So he (the Prophet) raised 
both his hands and invoked Allah (for it).
Bukhari:933 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once in the lifetime of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) the people were afflicted with drought (famine). While 
the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a Bedouin stood up and said, "O, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Our possessions are being destroyed and the children are hungry; Please invoke Allah (for rain)". So 
the Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands. At that time there was not a trace of cloud in the sky. By Him in Whose 
Hands my soul is as soon as he lowered his hands, clouds gathered like mountains, and before he got 
down from the pulpit, I saw the rain falling on the beard of the Prophet. It rained that day, the next 
day, the third day, the fourth day till the next Friday. The same Bedouin or another man stood up and 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The houses have collapsed, our possessions and livestock have been 
drowned; Please invoke Allah (to protect us)". So the Prophet (ﷺ) raised both his hands and said, "O 
Allah! Round about us and not on us". So, in whatever direction he pointed with his hands, the clouds 
dispersed and cleared away, and Medina's (sky) became clear as a hole in between the clouds. The 
valley of Qanat remained flooded, for one month, none came from outside but talked about the 
abundant rain.
Bukhari:934 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "When the Imam is delivering the Khutba, and you ask your companion 
to keep quiet and listen, then no doubt you have done an evil act."
Bukhari:935 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) talked about Friday and said, "There is an hour (opportune time) on Friday 
and if a Muslim gets it while praying and asks something from Allah, then Allah will definitely meet 
his demand." And he (the Prophet) pointed out the shortness of that time with his hands.
Bukhari:936 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While we were praying (Jumua Khutba & prayer) with the Prophet (p.b.u.h), some camels loaded with 
food, arrived (from Sham). The people diverted their attention towards the camels (and left the 
mosque), and only twelve persons remained with the Prophet. So this verse was revealed: "But when 
they see Some bargain or some amusement, They disperse headlong to it, And leave you standing." 
(62.11)
Bukhari:937 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray two rak`at before the Zuhr prayer and two rak`at after it. He also used to 
pray two rak`at after the Maghrib prayer in his house, and two rak`at after the `Isha' prayer. He never 
prayed after Jumua prayer till he departed (from the Mosque), and then he would pray two rak`at at 
home.
Bukhari:938 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:There was a woman amongst us who had a farm and she used to sow Silq (a kind of vegetable) on the 
edges of streams in her farm. On Fridays she used to pull out the Silq from its roots and put the roots 
in a utensil. Then she would put a handful of powdered barley over it and cook it. The roots of the Silq 
were a substitute for meat. After finishing the Jumua prayer we used to greet her and she would give 
us that food which we would eat with our hands, and because of that meal, we used to look forward to 
Friday.
Bukhari:939 Narrated Sahl:As above with the addition: We never had an afternoon nap nor meals except after offering the Jumua 
prayer.
Bukhari:940 Narrated Anas:We used to offer the Jumua prayer early and then have the afternoon nap.
Bukhari:941 Narrated Sahl:We used to offer the Jumua prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then take the afternoon nap.
Bukhari:942 Narrated Shu'aib:I asked Az-Zuhri, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) ever offer the Fear Prayer?" Az-Zuhri said, "I was told by Salim 
that `Abdullah bin `Umar I had said, 'I took part in a holy battle with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I in Najd. We 
faced the enemy and arranged ourselves in rows. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) stood up to lead the 
prayer and one party stood to pray with him while the other faced the enemy. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) 
and the former party bowed and performed two prostrations. Then that party left and took the place of 
those who had not prayed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed one rak`a (with the latter) and performed two 
prostrations and finished his prayer with Taslim. Then everyone of them bowed once and performed 
two prostrations individually.' "
Bukhari:943 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said something similar to Mujahid's saying: Whenever (Muslims and non-Muslims) stand 
face to face in battle, the Muslims can pray while standing. Ibn `Umar added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If 
the number of the enemy is greater than the Muslims, they can pray while standing or riding 
(individually).' "
Bukhari:944 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (p.b.u.h) led the fear prayer and the people stood behind him. He said Takbir 
(Allahu-Akbar) and the people said the same. He bowed and some of them bowed. Then he prostrated 
and they also prostrated. Then he stood for the second rak`a and those who had prayed the first rak`a 
left and guarded their brothers. The second party joined him and performed bowing and prostration 
with him. All the people were in prayer but they were guarding one another during the prayer.
Bukhari:945 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the day of the Khandaq `Umar came, cursing the disbelievers of Quraish and said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! I have not offered the `Asr prayer and the sun has set." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "By Allah! I too, 
have not offered the prayer yet. "The Prophet (ﷺ) then went to Buthan, performed ablution and performed 
the `Asr prayer after the sun had set and then offered the Maghrib prayer after it."
Bukhari:946 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from the battle of Al-Ahzab (The confederates), he said to us, "None should offer the 'Asr prayer but at Bani Quraiza." The 'Asr prayer became due for some of them on the way. Some of them decided not to offer the Salat but at Bani Quraiza while others decided to offer the Salat on the spot and said that the intention of the Prophet (ﷺ) was not what the former party had understood. And when that was told to the Prophet (ﷺ) he did not blame anyone of them.
Bukhari:947 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) offered the Fajr prayer when it was still dark, then he rode and said, 'Allah 
Akbar! Khaibar is ruined. When we approach near to a nation, the most unfortunate is the morning of 
those who have been warned." The people came out into the streets saying, "Muhammad and his 
army." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) vanquished them by force and their warriors were killed; the children and 
women were taken as captives. Safiya was taken by Dihya Al-Kalbi and later she belonged to Allah's 
Apostle go who married her and her Mahr was her manumission.
Bukhari:948 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bought a silk cloak from the market, took it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Take it and adorn yourself with it during the `Id and when the delegations visit you." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) replied, "This dress is for those who have no share (in the Hereafter)." After a long period 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) sent to `Umar a cloak of silk brocade. `Umar came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) with the cloak and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You said that this dress was for those who had 
no share (in the Hereafter); yet you have sent me this cloak." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Sell it and 
fulfill your needs by it."
Bukhari:949 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) came to my house while two girls were singing beside me the songs of Buath 
(a story about the war between the two tribes of the Ansar, the Khazraj and the Aus, before Islam). 
The Prophet (p.b.u.h) lay down and turned his face to the other side. Then Abu Bakr came and spoke 
to me harshly saying, "Musical instruments of Satan near the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) turned his face towards him and said, "Leave them." When Abu Bakr became inattentive, I 
signaled to those girls to go out and they left. It was the day of `Id, and the Black people were playing 
with shields and spears; so either I requested the Prophet (p.b.u.h) or he asked me whether I would 
like to see the display. I replied in the affirmative. Then the Prophet (p.b.u.h) made me stand behind 
him and my cheek was touching his cheek and he was saying, "Carry on! O Bani Arfida," till I got 
tired. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) asked me, "Are you satisfied (Is that sufficient for you)?" I replied in the 
affirmative and he told me to leave.
Bukhari:950 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) came to my house while two girls were singing beside me the songs of Buath 
(a story about the war between the two tribes of the Ansar, the Khazraj and the Aus, before Islam). 
The Prophet (p.b.u.h) lay down and turned his face to the other side. Then Abu Bakr came and spoke 
to me harshly saying, "Musical instruments of Satan near the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
(p.b.u.h) turned his face towards him and said, "Leave them." When Abu Bakr became inattentive, I 
signaled to those girls to go out and they left. It was the day of `Id, and the Black people were playing 
with shields and spears; so either I requested the Prophet (p.b.u.h) or he asked me whether I would 
like to see the display. I replied in the affirmative. Then the Prophet (p.b.u.h) made me stand behind 
him and my cheek was touching his cheek and he was saying, "Carry on! O Bani Arfida," till I got 
tired. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) asked me, "Are you satisfied (Is that sufficient for you)?" I replied in the 
affirmative and he told me to leave.
Bukhari:951 Narrated Al-Bara':I heard the Prophet (p.b.u.h) delivering a Khutba saying, "The first thing to be done on this day (first 
day of `Id ul Adha) is to pray; and after returning from the prayer we slaughter our sacrifices (in the 
name of Allah) and whoever does so, he acted according to our Sunna (traditions)."
Bukhari:952 Narrated Aisha:Abu Bakr came to my house while two small Ansari girls were singing beside me the stories of the 
Ansar concerning the Day of Buath. And they were not singers. Abu Bakr said protestingly, "Musical 
instruments of Satan in the house of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) !" It happened on the `Id day and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "O Abu Bakr! There is an `Id for every nation and this is our `Id."
Bukhari:953 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never proceeded (for the prayer) on the Day of `Id-ul-Fitr unless he had eaten some 
dates. Anas also narrated: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to eat odd number of dates.
Bukhari:954 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever slaughtered (his sacrifice) before the `Id prayer, should slaughter again." 
A man stood up and said, "This is the day on which one has desire for meat," and he mentioned 
something about his neighbors. It seemed that the Prophet (ﷺ) I believed him. Then the same man added, 
"I have a young she-goat which is dearer to me than the meat of two sheep." The Prophet (ﷺ) permitted 
him to slaughter it as a sacrifice. I do not know whether that permission was valid only for him or for 
others as well.
Bukhari:955 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered the Khutba after offering the prayer on the Day of Nahr and said, "Whoever 
offers the prayer like us and slaughters like us then his Nusuk (sacrifice) will be accepted by Allah. 
And whoever slaughters his sacrifice before the `Id prayer then he has not done the sacrifice." Abi 
Burda bin Niyar, the uncle of Al-Bara' said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have slaughtered my sheep before 
the `Id prayer and I thought today as a day of eating and drinking (not alcoholic drinks), and I liked 
that my sheep should be the first to be slaughtered in my house. So slaughtered my sheep and took my 
food before coming for the prayer." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sheep which you have slaughtered is just 
mutton (not a Nusuk)." He (Abu Burda) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have a young she-goat which is 
dearer to me than two sheep. Will that be sufficient as a Nusuk on my behalf? "The Prophet (p.b.u.h) 
said, "Yes, it will be sufficient for you but it will not be sufficient (as a Nusuk) for anyone else after 
you."
Bukhari:956 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to proceed to the Musalla on the days of Id-ul-Fitr and Id-ul-Adha; the first thing to 
begin with was the prayer and after that he would stand in front of the people and the people would 
keep sitting in their rows. Then he would preach to them, advise them and give them orders, (i.e. 
Khutba). And after that if he wished to send an army for an expedition, he would do so; or if he 
wanted to give and order, he would do so, and then depart. The people followed this tradition till I 
went out with Marwan, the Governor of Medina, for the prayer of Id-ul-Adha or Id-ul-Fitr. 
When we reached the Musalla, there was a pulpit made by Kathir bin As-Salt. Marwan wanted to get 
up on that pulpit before the prayer. I got hold of his clothes but he pulled them and ascended the pulpit 
and delivered the Khutba before the prayer. I said to him, "By Allah, you have changed (the Prophet's 
tradition)." He replied, "O Abu Sa`id! Gone is that which you know." I said, "By Allah! What I know 
is better than what I do not know." Marwan said, "People do not sit to listen to our Khutba after the 
prayer, so I delivered the Khutba before the prayer."
Bukhari:957 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the prayer of `Id-ul-Adha and `Id-ul-Fitr and then deliver the Khutba 
after the prayer.
Bukhari:958 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ata' said, "Jabir bin `Abdullah said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on the Day of `Id-ul-Fitr and offered the 
prayer before delivering the Khutba, Ata told me that during the early days of Ibn Az-Zubair, Ibn 
`Abbas had sent a message to him telling him that the Adhan for the `Id Prayer was never pronounced 
(in the life time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the Khutba used to be delivered after the prayer. Ata told me 
that Ibn `Abbas and Jabir bin `Abdullah, had said, "There was no Adhan for the prayer of `Id-ul-Fitr 
and `Id-ul-Aqha." `Ata' said, "I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and started 
with the prayer, and after it he delivered the Khutba. When the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah (p.b.u.h) finished (the 
Khutba), he went to the women and preached to them, while he was leaning on Bilal's hand. Bilal was 
spreading his garment and the ladies were putting alms in it.' " I said to Ata, "Do you think it 
incumbent upon an Imam to go to the women and preach to them after finishing the prayer and 
Khutba?" `Ata' said, "No doubt it is incumbent on Imams to do so, and why should they not do so?"
Bukhari:959 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ata' said, "Jabir bin `Abdullah said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on the Day of `Id-ul-Fitr and offered the 
prayer before delivering the Khutba, Ata told me that during the early days of Ibn Az-Zubair, Ibn 
`Abbas had sent a message to him telling him that the Adhan for the `Id Prayer was never pronounced 
(in the life time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the Khutba used to be delivered after the prayer. Ata told me 
that Ibn `Abbas and Jabir bin `Abdullah, had said, "There was no Adhan for the prayer of `Id-ul-Fitr 
and `Id-ul-Aqha." `Ata' said, "I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and started 
with the prayer, and after it he delivered the Khutba. When the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah (p.b.u.h) finished (the 
Khutba), he went to the women and preached to them, while he was leaning on Bilal's hand. Bilal was 
spreading his garment and the ladies were putting alms in it.' " I said to Ata, "Do you think it 
incumbent upon an Imam to go to the women and preach to them after finishing the prayer and 
Khutba?" `Ata' said, "No doubt it is incumbent on Imams to do so, and why should they not do so?"
Bukhari:960 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ata' said, "Jabir bin `Abdullah said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on the Day of `Id-ul-Fitr and offered the 
prayer before delivering the Khutba, Ata told me that during the early days of Ibn Az-Zubair, Ibn 
`Abbas had sent a message to him telling him that the Adhan for the `Id Prayer was never pronounced 
(in the life time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the Khutba used to be delivered after the prayer. Ata told me 
that Ibn `Abbas and Jabir bin `Abdullah, had said, "There was no Adhan for the prayer of `Id-ul-Fitr 
and `Id-ul-Aqha." `Ata' said, "I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and started 
with the prayer, and after it he delivered the Khutba. When the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah (p.b.u.h) finished (the 
Khutba), he went to the women and preached to them, while he was leaning on Bilal's hand. Bilal was 
spreading his garment and the ladies were putting alms in it.' " I said to Ata, "Do you think it 
incumbent upon an Imam to go to the women and preach to them after finishing the prayer and 
Khutba?" `Ata' said, "No doubt it is incumbent on Imams to do so, and why should they not do so?"
Bukhari:961 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ata' said, "Jabir bin `Abdullah said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on the Day of `Id-ul-Fitr and offered the 
prayer before delivering the Khutba, Ata told me that during the early days of Ibn Az-Zubair, Ibn 
`Abbas had sent a message to him telling him that the Adhan for the `Id Prayer was never pronounced 
(in the life time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the Khutba used to be delivered after the prayer. Ata told me 
that Ibn `Abbas and Jabir bin `Abdullah, had said, "There was no Adhan for the prayer of `Id-ul-Fitr 
and `Id-ul-Aqha." `Ata' said, "I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and started 
with the prayer, and after it he delivered the Khutba. When the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah (p.b.u.h) finished (the 
Khutba), he went to the women and preached to them, while he was leaning on Bilal's hand. Bilal was 
spreading his garment and the ladies were putting alms in it.' " I said to Ata, "Do you think it 
incumbent upon an Imam to go to the women and preach to them after finishing the prayer and 
Khutba?" `Ata' said, "No doubt it is incumbent on Imams to do so, and why should they not do so?"
Bukhari:962 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I offered the `Id prayer with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman and all of them offered 
the prayer before delivering the Khutba.
Bukhari:963 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and `Umar! used to offer the two `Id prayers before delivering the Khutba.
Bukhari:964 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered a two rak`at prayer on the Day of Id ul Fitr and he did not pray before or after it. 
Then he went towards women along with Bilal and ordered them to pay alms and so they started 
giving their earrings and necklaces (in charity).
Bukhari:965 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "The first thing that we should do on this day of ours is to pray and then 
return to slaughter the sacrifice. So anyone who does so, he acted according to our Sunna (tradition), 
and whoever slaughtered the sacrifice before the prayer, it was just meat which he presented to his 
family and would not be considered as Nusuk." A person from the Ansar named Abu Burda bin 
Niyyar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I slaughtered the Nusuk (before the prayer) but I have a young shegoat 
which is better than an older sheep." The Prophet (ﷺ) I said, "Sacrifice it in lieu of the first, but it will 
be not sufficient (as a sacrifice) for anybody else after you."
Bukhari:966 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:I was with Ibn `Umar when a spear head pierced the sole of his foot and his foot stuck to the paddle 
of the saddle and I got down and pulled his foot out, and that happened in Mina. Al-Hajjaj got the 
news and came to inquire about his health and said, "Alas! If we could only know the man who 
wounded you!" Ibn `Umar said, "You are the one who wounded me." Al-Hajjaj said, "How is that?" 
Ibn `Umar said, "You have allowed the arms to be carried on a day on which nobody used to carry 
them and you allowed arms to be carried in the Haram even though it was not allowed before."
Bukhari:967 Narrated Sa`id bin `Amr bin Sa`id bin Al-`Aas:Al-Hajjaj went to Ibn `Umar while I was present there. Al-Hajjaj asked Ibn `Umar, "How are you?" 
Ibn `Umar replied, "I am all right," Al-Hajjaj asked, "Who wounded you?" Ibn `Umar replied, "The 
person who allowed arms to be carried on the day on which it was forbidden to carry them (he meant 
Al-Hajjaj)."
Bukhari:968 Narrated Al-Bara':The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered the Khutba on the day of Nahr (`Id-ul-Adha) and said, "The first thing we 
should do on this day of ours is to pray and then return and slaughter (our sacrifices). So anyone who 
does so he acted according to our Sunna; and whoever slaughtered before the prayer then it was just 
meat that he offered to his family and would not be considered as a sacrifice in any way. My uncle 
Abu Burda bin Niyyar got up and said, "O, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I slaughtered the sacrifice before the 
prayer but I have a young she-goat which is better than an older sheep." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Slaughter 
it in lieu of the first and such a goat will not be considered as a sacrifice for anybody else after you."
Bukhari:969 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No good deeds done on other days are superior to those done on these (first ten 
days of Dhul Hijja)." Then some companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Not even Jihad?" He replied, "Not 
even Jihad, except that of a man who does it by putting himself and his property in danger (for Allah's 
sake) and does not return with any of those things."
Bukhari:970 Narrated Muhammad bin Abi Bakr Al-Thaqafi:While we were going from Mina to `Arafat, I asked Anas bin Malik, about Talbiya, "How did you use 
to say Talbiya in the company of the Prophet?" Anas said: "People used to say Talbiya and their 
saying was not objected to and they used to say Takbir and that was not objected to either. "
Bukhari:971 Narrated Um `Atiya:We used to be ordered to come out on the Day of `Id and even bring out the virgin girls from their 
houses and menstruating women so that they might stand behind the men and say Takbir along with 
them and invoke Allah along with them and hope for the blessings of that day and for purification 
from sins.
Bukhari:972 Narrated Ibn `Umar:On the day of `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha a spear used to be planted in front of the Prophet (as a Sutra for the prayer) and then he would pray.
Bukhari:973 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to proceed to the Musalla and an 'Anaza used to be carried before him and planted 
in the Musalla in front of him and he would pray facing it (as a Sutra).
Bukhari:974 Narrated Muhammad:Um 'Atiyya said: "Our Prophet ordered us to come out (on `Id day) with the mature girls and the 
virgins staying in seclusion." Hafsa narrated the above mentioned Hadith and added, "The mature girls 
or virgins staying in seclusion but the menstruating women had to keep away from the Musalla."
Bukhari:975 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I (in my boyhood) went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of `Id ul Fitr or Id-ul-Adha. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
prayed and then delivered the Khutba and then went towards the women, preached and advised them 
and ordered them to give alms.
Bukhari:976 Narrated Al-Bara':The Prophet (ﷺ) went towards Al-Baqi (the graveyard at Medina) on the day of Id-ul-Adha and offered a 
two-rak`at prayer (of `Id-ul-Adha) and then faced us and said, "On this day of ours, our first act of 
worship is the offering of prayer and then we will return and slaughter the sacrifice, and whoever does 
this concords with our Sunna; and whoever slaughtered his sacrifice before that (i.e. before the prayer) 
then that was a thing which he prepared earlier for his family and it would not be considered as a 
Nusuk (sacrifice.)" A man stood up and said, "O, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I slaughtered (the animal before the 
prayer) but I have a young she-goat which is better than an older sheep." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said to 
him, "Slaughter it. But a similar sacrifice will not be sufficient for anybody else after you."
Bukhari:977 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin `Abis:Ibn `Abbas was asked whether he had joined the Prophet (ﷺ) in the `Id prayer. He said, "Yes. And I could 
not have joined him had I not been young. (The Prophet (ﷺ) came out) till he reached the mark which was 
near the house of Kathir bin As-Salt, offered the prayer, delivered the Khutba and then went towards 
the women. Bilal was accompanying him. He preached to them and advised them and ordered them to 
give alms. I saw the women putting their ornaments with their outstretched hands into Bilal's garment. 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) along with Bilal returned home.
Bukhari:978 Narrated Ibn Juraij:`Ata' told me that he had heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up to offer the prayer of the `Id ul Fitr. He first offered the prayer and then delivered the Khutba. After finishing it he got down (from the pulpit) and went towards the women and advised them while he was leaning on Bilal's hand. Bilal was spreading out his garment where the women were putting their alms." I asked `Ata' whether it was the Zakat of `Id ul Fitr. He said, "No, it was just alms given at that time. Some lady put her finger ring and the others would do the same." I said, (to `Ata'), "Do you think that it is incumbent upon the Imam to give advice to the women (on `Id day)?" He said, "No doubt, it is incumbent upon the Imams to do so and why should they not do so?"
Bukhari:979 Al-Hasan bin Muslim told me thatIbn `Abbas had said, "I joined the Prophet, Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman in the `Id ul Fitr prayers. They used to offer the prayer before the Khutba and then they used to deliver the Khutba afterwards. Once the Prophet (ﷺ) I came out (for the `Id prayer) as if I were just observing him waving to the people to sit down. He, then accompanied by Bilal, came crossing the rows till he reached the women. He recited the following verse:'O Prophet! When the believing women come to you to take the oath of fealty to you . . . (to the end of the verse) (60.12).' After finishing the recitation he said, "O ladies! Are you fulfilling your covenant?" None except one woman said, "Yes." Hasan did not know who was that woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then give alms." Bilal spread his garment and said, "Keep on giving alms. Let my father and mother sacrifice their lives for you (ladies)." So the ladies kept on putting their Fatkhs (big rings) and other kinds of rings in Bilal's garment." `Abdur-Razaq said, " 'Fatkhs' is a big ring which used to be worn in the (Pre-Islamic) period of ignorance.
Bukhari:980 Narrated Aiyub:Hafsa bint Seereen said, "On Id we used to forbid our girls to go out for `Id prayer. A lady came and 
stayed at the palace of Bani Khalaf and I went to her. She said, 'The husband of my sister took part in 
twelve holy battles along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and my sister was with her husband in six of them. My 
sister said that they used to nurse the sick and treat the wounded. Once she asked, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
If a woman has no veil, is there any harm if she does not come out (on `Id day)?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
'Her companion should let her share her veil with her, and the women should participate in the good 
deeds and in the religious gatherings of the believers.' " Hafsa added, "When Um-`Atiya came, I went 
to her and asked her, 'Did you hear anything about so-and-so?' Um-`Atiya said, 'Yes, let my father be 
sacrificed for the Prophet (p.b.u.h). (And whenever she mentioned the name of the Prophet (ﷺ) she always 
used to say, 'Let my father be' sacrificed for him). He said, 'Virgin mature girls staying often screened 
(or said, 'Mature girls and virgins staying often screened--Aiyub is not sure as which was right) and 
menstruating women should come out (on the `Id day). But the menstruating women should keep 
away from the Musalla. And all the women should participate in the good deeds and in the religious 
gatherings of the believers'." Hafsa said, "On that I said to Um-`Atiya, 'Also those who are 
menstruating?' " Um-`Atiya replied, "Yes. Do they not present themselves at `Arafat and elsewhere?".
Bukhari:981 Narrated Um-`Atiya:We were ordered to go out (for `Id) and also to take along with us the menstruating women, mature 
girls and virgins staying in seclusion. (Ibn `Aun said, "Or mature virgins staying in seclusion)." The 
menstruating women could present themselves at the religious gathering and invocation of Muslims 
but should keep away from their Musalla.
Bukhari:982 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to Nahr or slaughter sacrifices at the Musalla (on `Id-ul-Adha).
Bukhari:983 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:On the day of Nahr Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered the Khutba after the `Id prayer and said, "Anyone who 
prayed like us and slaughtered the sacrifice like we did then he acted according to our (Nusuk) 
tradition of sacrificing, and whoever slaughtered the sacrifice before the prayer, then that was just 
mutton (i.e. not sacrifice)." Abu Burda bin Naiyar stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I 
slaughtered my sacrifice before I offered the (Id) prayer and thought that today was the day of eating 
and drinking (nonalcoholic drinks) and so I made haste (in slaughtering) and ate and also fed my 
family and neighbors." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "That was just mutton (not a sacrifice)." Then Abu Burda 
said, "I have a young she-goat and no doubt, it is better than two sheep. Will that be sufficient as a 
sacrifice for me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Yes. But it will not be sufficient for anyone else (as a 
sacrifice), after you."
Bukhari:984 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the prayer on the day of Nahr and then delivered the Khutba and ordered that 
whoever had slaughtered his sacrifice before the prayer should repeat it, that is, should slaughter 
another sacrifice. Then a person from the Ansar stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! because of my 
neighbors (he described them as being very needy or poor) I slaughtered before the prayer. I have a 
young she-goat which, in my opinion, is better than two sheep." The Prophet (ﷺ) gave him the permission 
for slaughtering it as a sacrifice.
Bukhari:985 Narrated Jundab:On the day of Nahr the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the prayer and delivered the Khutba and then slaughtered the 
sacrifice and said, "Anybody who slaughtered (his sacrifice) before the prayer should slaughter 
another animal in lieu of it, and the one who has not yet slaughtered should slaughter the sacrifice 
mentioning Allah's name on it."
Bukhari:986 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the Day of `Id the Prophet (ﷺ) used to return (after offering the `Id prayer) through a way different 
from that by which he went.
Bukhari:987 Narrated `Urwa on the authority of `Aisha:On the days of Mina, (11th, 12th, and 13th of Dhul-Hijjah) Abu Bakr came to her while two young 
girls were beating the tambourine and the Prophet (ﷺ) was lying covered with his clothes. Abu Bakr 
scolded them and the Prophet (ﷺ) uncovered his face and said to Abu Bakr, "Leave them, for these days 
are the days of `Id and the days of Mina." `Aisha further said, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was screening me 
and I was watching the display of black slaves in the Mosque and (`Umar) scolded them. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, 'Leave them. O Bani Arfida! (carry on), you are safe (protected)'."
Bukhari:988 Narrated `Urwa on the authority of `Aisha:On the days of Mina, (11th, 12th, and 13th of Dhul-Hijjah) Abu Bakr came to her while two young 
girls were beating the tambourine and the Prophet (ﷺ) was lying covered with his clothes. Abu Bakr 
scolded them and the Prophet (ﷺ) uncovered his face and said to Abu Bakr, "Leave them, for these days 
are the days of `Id and the days of Mina." `Aisha further said, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was screening me 
and I was watching the display of black slaves in the Mosque and (`Umar) scolded them. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, 'Leave them. O Bani Arfida! (carry on), you are safe (protected)'."
Bukhari:989 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered a two rak`at prayer on the Day of `Id ul Fitr and did not offer any 
other prayer before or after it and at that time Bilal was accompanying him.
Bukhari:990 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Once a person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (ﷺ) about the night prayer. Allah's 
     Apostle (ﷺ) replied, "The night prayer is offered as two Rak`at followed by
     two Rak`at and so on and if anyone is afraid of the approaching dawn 
     (Fajr prayer) he should pray one Rak`ah and this will be a Witr for all 
     the Rak`at which he has prayed before."
Bukhari:991 Nafi` told that `Abdullah bin 
     `Umar used to say Taslim between (the first) two Rak`at and (the third)
     odd one in the Witr prayer, when he wanted to attend to a certain 
     matter (during that interval between the Rak`at).
Bukhari:992 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I passed the night in the house of Maimuna (his aunt). I slept across the bed while Allah's 
Apostle and his wife slept length-wise. The Prophet (ﷺ) slept till midnight or nearly so and woke up 
rubbing his face and recited ten verses from Surat "Al-`Imran." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went towards a leather 
skin and performed ablution in the most perfect way and then stood for the prayer. I did the same and 
stood beside him. The Prophet (ﷺ) put his right hand on my head, twisted my ear and then prayed two 
rak`at five times and then ended his prayer with witr. He laid down till the Mu'adh-dhin came then he 
stood up and offered two rak`at (Sunnah of Fajr prayer) and then went out and offered the Fajr prayer. 
(SeeHadith 183)
Bukhari:993 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Night prayer is offered as two rak`at followed by two rak`at and so on, and if you 
want to finish it, pray only one rak`a which will be witr for all the previous rak`at." Al-Qasim said, 
"Since we attained the age of puberty we have seen some people offering a three-rak`at prayer as witr 
and all that is permissible. I hope there will be no harm in it."
Bukhari:994 Narrated `A'isha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak`at at night and that was his night prayer and each of his 
prostrations lasted for a period enough for one of you to recite fifty verses before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
raised his head. He also used to pray two rak`at (Sunnah) before the (compulsory) Fajr prayer and then 
lie down on his right side till the Mu'adh-dhin came to him for the prayer.
Bukhari:995 Narrated Anas bin Seereen:I asked Ibn `Umar, "What is your opinion about the two rak`at before the Fajr (compulsory) prayer, as 
to prolonging the recitation in them?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray at night two rak`at 
followed by two and so on, and end the prayer by one rak`ah witr. He used to offer two rak`at before 
the Fajr prayer immediately after the Adhan." (Hammad, the sub-narrator said, "That meant (that he 
prayed) quickly.)"
Bukhari:996 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered witr prayer at different nights at various hours extending (from the `Isha' 
prayer) up to the last hour of the night.
Bukhari:997 Narrated `A'isha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer his night prayer while I was sleeping across in his bed. Whenever 
he intended to offer the witr prayer, he used to wake me up and I would offer the witr prayer too.
Bukhari:998 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Make witr as your last prayer at night."
Bukhari:999 Narrated Sa`id bin Yasar:I was going to Mecca in the company of `Abdullah bin `Umar and when I apprehended the 
approaching dawn, I dismounted and offered the witr prayer and then joined him. `Abdullah bin 
`Umar said, "Where have you been?" I replied, "I apprehended the approaching dawn so I dismounted 
and prayed the witr prayer." `Abdullah said, "Isn't it sufficient for you to follow the good example of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" I replied, "Yes, by Allah." He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray witr on the back of 
the camel (while on a journey)."
Bukhari:1000 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer (Nawafil) prayers on his Rahila (mount) facing its direction by signals, but 
not the compulsory prayer. He also used to pray witr on his (mount) Rahila.
