Bukhari:301 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot while we were Junub. During the menses, he 
used to order me to put on an Izar (dress worn below the waist) and used to fondle me. While in 
I`tikaf, he used to bring his head near me and I would wash it while I used to be in my periods 
(menses).
Bukhari:302 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad:(on the authority of his father) `Aisha said: "Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to fondle anyone of us 
during her periods (menses), he used to order her to put on an Izar and start fondling her." `Aisha 
added, "None of you could control his sexual desires as the Prophet (ﷺ) could."
Bukhari:303 Narrated Maimuna:When ever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to fondle any of his wives during the periods (menses), he used to 
ask her to wear an Izar.
Bukhari:304 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to the Musalla (to offer the prayer) of `Id-al-Adha or Al-Fitr prayer. 
Then he passed by the women and said, "O women! Give alms, as I have seen that the majority of the 
dwellers of Hell-fire were you (women)." They asked, "Why is it so, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" He replied, 
"You curse frequently and are ungrateful to your husbands. I have not seen anyone more deficient in 
intelligence and religion than you. A cautious sensible man could be led astray by some of you." The 
women asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is deficient in our intelligence and religion?" He said, "Is not 
the evidence of two women equal to the witness of one man?" They replied in the affirmative. He 
said, "This is the deficiency in her intelligence. Isn't it true that a woman can neither pray nor fast 
during her menses?" The women replied in the affirmative. He said, "This is the deficiency in her 
religion."
Bukhari:305 Narrated `Aisha:We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) for Hajj and when we reached Sarif I got my menses. When the Prophet (ﷺ) 
came to me, I was weeping. He asked, "Why are you weeping?" I said, "I wish if I had not performed 
Hajj this year." He asked, "May be that you got your menses?" I replied, "Yes." He then said, "This is 
the thing which Allah has ordained for all the daughters of Adam. So do what all the pilgrims do 
except that you do not perform the Tawaf round the Ka`ba till you are clean."
Bukhari:306 Narrated `Aisha:Fatima bint Abi Hubaish said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I do not become clean (from 
bleeding). Shall I give up my prayers?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied: "No, because it is from a blood vessel 
and not the menses. So when the real menses begins give up your prayers and when it (the period) has 
finished wash the blood off your body (take a bath) and offer your prayers."
Bukhari:307 Narrated Asma' bint Abi Bakr:A woman asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What should we do, if the blood of menses falls 
on our clothes?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "If the blood of menses falls on the garment of anyone of 
you, she must take hold of the blood spot, rub it, and wash it with water and then pray in (with it).
Bukhari:308 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever anyone of us got her menses, she, on becoming clean, used to take hold of the blood spot 
and rub the blood off her garment, and pour water over it and wash that portion thoroughly and 
sprinkle water over the rest of the garment. After that she would pray in (with) it.
Bukhari:309 Narrated `Aisha:Once one of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) did I`tikaf along with him and she was getting bleeding in 
between her periods. She used to see the blood (from her private parts) and she would perhaps put a 
dish under her for the blood. (The sub-narrator `Ikrima added, `Aisha once saw the liquid of safflower 
and said, "It looks like what so and so used to have.")
Bukhari:310 Narrated `Aisha:"One of the wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) joined him in I`tikaf and she noticed blood and yellowish 
discharge (from her private parts) and put a dish under her when she prayed."
Bukhari:311 Narrated `Aisha:One of the mothers of the faithful believers (i.e. the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) did I`tikaf while she was 
having bleeding in between her periods.
Bukhari:312 Narrated `Aisha:None of us had more than a single garment and we used to have our menses while wearing it. 
Whenever it got soiled with blood of menses we used to apply saliva to the blood spot and rub off the 
blood with our nails.
Bukhari:313 Narrated Um-`Atiya:We were forbidden to mourn for a dead person for more than three days except in the case of a 
husband for whom mourning was allowed for four months and ten days. (During that time) we were 
not allowed to put kohl (Antimony eye power) in our eyes or to use perfumes or to put on colored 
clothes except a dress made of `Asr (a kind of Yemen cloth, very coarse and rough). We were allowed 
very light perfumes at the time of taking a bath after menses and also we were forbidden to go with 
the funeral procession .
Bukhari:314 Narrated `Aisha:A woman asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the bath which is taken after finishing from the menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
told her what to do and said, "Purify yourself with a piece of cloth scented with musk." The woman 
asked, "How shall I purify myself with it" He said, "Subhan Allah! Purify yourself (with it)." I pulled 
her to myself and said, "Rub the place soiled with blood with it."
Bukhari:315 Narrated `Aisha:An Ansari woman asked the Prophet (ﷺ) how to take a bath after finishing from the menses. He replied, 
"Take a piece a cloth perfumed with musk and clean the private parts with it thrice." The Prophet (ﷺ) felt 
shy and turned his face. So I pulled her to me and told her what the Prophet (ﷺ) meant.
Bukhari:316 Narrated `Aisha:In the last Hajj of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I assumed the Ihram for Hajj along with Allah Apostle. I was one of 
those who intended Tamattu` (to perform Hajj and `Umra) and did not take the Hadi (animal for 
sacrifice) with me. I got my menses and was not clean till the night of `Arafa I said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! It is the night of the day of `Arafat and I intended to perform the Hajj Tamattu` with `Umra. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told me to undo my hair and comb it and to postpone the `Umra. I did the same and 
completed the Hajj. On the night of Al-Hasba (i.e. place outside Mecca where the pilgrims go after 
finishing all the ceremonies of Hajj at Mina) he (the Prophet) ordered `Abdur Rahman (`Aisha's brother) 
to take me to at-Tan`im to assume the lhram for `Umra in lieu of that of Hajj-at-Tamattu` which I had 
intended to perform.
Bukhari:317 Narrated `Aisha:On the 1st of Dhul-Hijja we set out with the intention of performing Hajj. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Any 
one who likes to assume the Ihram for `Umra he can do so. Had I not brought the Hadi with me, I 
would have assumed the Ihram for `Umra. "Some of us assumed the Ihram for `Umra while the others 
assumed the Ihram for Hajj. I was one of those who assumed the Ihram for `Umra. I got menses and 
kept on menstruating until the day of `Arafat and complained of that to the Prophet. He told me to 
postpone my `Umra, undo and comb my hair, and to assume the Ihram of Hajj and I did so. On the 
night of Hasba, he sent my brother `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr with me to at-Tan`im, where I 
assumed the Ihram for `Umra in lieu of the previous one. Hisham said, "For that (`Umra) no Hadi, 
fasting or alms were required.
Bukhari:318 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "At every womb Allah appoints an angel who says, 'O Lord! A drop of semen, O 
Lord! A clot. O Lord! A little lump of flesh." Then if Allah wishes (to complete) its creation, the angel 
asks, (O Lord!) Will it be a male or female, a wretched or a blessed, and how much will his provision 
be? And what will his age be?' So all that is written while the child is still in the mother's womb."
Bukhari:319 Narrated `Urwa:`Aisha said, "We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) in his last Hajj. Some of us intended to perform `Umra 
while others Hajj. When we reached Mecca, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Those who had assumed the lhram 
for `Umra and had not brought the Hadi should finish his lhram and whoever had assumed the Ihram 
for `Umra and brought the Hadi should not finish the Ihram till he has slaughtered his Hadi and 
whoever had assumed the lhram for Hajj should complete his Hajj." `Aisha further said, "I got my 
periods (menses) and kept on menstruating till the day of `Arafat, and I had assumed the Ihram for 
`Umra only (Tamattu`). The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to undo and comb my head hair and assume the 
lhram for Hajj only and leave the `Umra. I did the same till I completed the Hajj. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) 
sent `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Bakr with me and ordered me to perform `Umra from at-Tan`im in lieu 
of the missed `Umra."
Bukhari:320 Narrated `Aisha:Fatima bint Abi Hubaish used to have bleeding in between the periods, so she asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about 
it. He replied, "The bleeding is from a blood vessel and not the menses. So give up the prayers when 
the (real) menses begins and when it has finished, take a bath and start praying."
Bukhari:321 Narrated Mu`adha:A woman asked `Aisha, "Should I offer the prayers that which I did not offer because of menses" 
`Aisha said, "Are you from the Huraura' (a town in Iraq?) We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to get 
our periods but he never ordered us to offer them (the Prayers missed during menses)." `Aisha perhaps 
said, "We did not offer them."
Bukhari:322 Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama:Um-Salama said, "I got my menses while I was lying with the Prophet (ﷺ) under a woolen sheet. So I 
slipped away, took the clothes for menses and put them on. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Have you got your 
menses?' I replied, 'Yes.' Then he called me and took me with him under the woolen sheet." Um 
Salama further said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to kiss me while he was fasting. The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to 
take the bath of Janaba from a single pot."
Bukhari:323 Narrated Um Salama:While I was lying with the Prophet (ﷺ) under a woolen sheet, I got my menses. I slipped away and put on 
the clothes for menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got your menses?" I replied, "Yes." He called me 
and I slept with him under the woolen sheet.
Bukhari:324 Narrated Aiyub:Hafsa said, 'We used to forbid our young women to go out for the two `Id prayers. A woman came 
and stayed at the palace of Bani Khalaf and she narrated about her sister whose husband took part in 
twelve holy battles along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and her sister was with her husband in six (out of these 
twelve). She (the woman's sister) said, "We used to treat the wounded, look after the patients and once 
I asked the Prophet, 'Is there any harm for any of us to stay at home if she doesn't have a veil?' He 
said, 'She should cover herself with the veil of her companion and should participate in the good deeds 
and in the religious gathering of the Muslims.' When Um `Atiya came I asked her whether she had 
heard it from the Prophet. She replied, "Yes. May my father be sacrificed for him (the Prophet)! 
(Whenever she mentioned the Prophet (ﷺ) she used to say, 'May my father be sacrificed for him) I have 
heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'The unmarried young virgins and the mature girl who stay often screened or 
the young unmarried virgins who often stay screened and the menstruating women should come out 
and participate in the good deeds as well as the religious gathering of the faithful believers but the 
menstruating women should keep away from the Musalla (praying place).' " Hafsa asked Um `Atiya 
surprisingly, "Do you say the menstruating women?" She replied, "Doesn't a menstruating woman 
attend `Arafat (Hajj) and such and such (other deeds)?"
Bukhari:325 Narrated `Aisha:Fatima bint Abi Hubaish asked the Prophet, "I got persistent bleeding (in between the periods) and do 
not become clean. Shall I give up prayers?" He replied, "No, this is from a blood vessel. Give up the 
prayers only for the days on which you usually get the menses and then take a bath and offer your 
prayers."
Bukhari:326 Narrated Um `Atiya:We never considered yellowish discharge as a thing of importance (as menses).
Bukhari:327 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Um Habiba got bleeding in between the periods for seven years. She asked 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. He ordered her to take a bath (after the termination of actual periods) and 
added that it was (from) a blood vessel. So she used to take a bath for every prayer.
Bukhari:328 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) I told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that Safiya bint Huyai had got her menses. He said, 
"She will probably delay us. Did she perform Tawaf (Al-Ifada) with you?" We replied, "Yes." On that 
the Prophet (ﷺ) told her to depart.
Bukhari:329 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A woman is allowed to leave (go back home) if she gets menses (after Tawaf-Al-Ifada). Ibn `Umar 
formerly used to say that she should not leave but later on I heard him saying, "She may leave, since 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave them the permission to leave (after Tawaf-Al-Ifada)."
Bukhari:330 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A woman is allowed to leave (go back home) if she gets menses (after Tawaf-Al-Ifada). Ibn `Umar 
formerly used to say that she should not leave but later on I heard him saying, "She may leave, since 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave them the permission to leave (after Tawaf-Al-Ifada)."
Bukhari:331 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Give up the prayer when your menses begin and when it has finished, wash 
the blood off your body (take a bath) and start praying."
Bukhari:332 Narrated Samura bin Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for the dead body of a woman who died during delivery 
(i.e. childbirth) and he stood by the middle of her body.
Bukhari:333 Narrated Maimuna:(the wife of the Prophet) During my menses, I never prayed, but used to sit on the mat beside the 
mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He used to offer the prayer on his sheet and in prostration some of his 
clothes used to touch me."
Bukhari:334 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of his journeys till we reached Al- 
Baida' or Dhatul-Jaish, a necklace of mine was broken (and lost). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed there to 
search for it, and so did the people along with him. There was no water at that place, so the people 
went to Abu- Bakr As-Siddiq and said, "Don't you see what `Aisha has done? She has made Allah's 
Apostle and the people stay where there is no water and they have no water with them." Abu Bakr 
came while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sleeping with his head on my thigh, He said, to me: "You have 
detained Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people where there is no water and they have no water with them. 
So he admonished me and said what Allah wished him to say and hit me on my flank with his hand. 
Nothing prevented me from moving (because of pain) but the position of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on my thigh. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up when dawn broke and there was no water. So Allah revealed the Divine Verses 
of Tayammum. So they all performed Tayammum. Usaid bin Hudair said, "O the family of Abu Bakr! 
This is not the first blessing of yours." Then the camel on which I was riding was caused to move 
from its place and the necklace was found beneath it.
Bukhari:335 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been given five things which were not given to any one else before me. 
-1. Allah made me victorious by awe, (by His frightening my enemies) for a distance of one month's 
journey. 
-2. The earth has been made for me (and for my followers) a place for praying and a thing to perform 
Tayammum, therefore anyone of my followers can pray wherever the time of a prayer is due. 
-3. The booty has been made Halal (lawful) for me yet it was not lawful for anyone else before me. 
-4. I have been given the right of intercession (on the Day of Resurrection). 
-5. Every Prophet used to be sent to his nation only but I have been sent to all mankind.
Bukhari:336 Narrated `Urwa's father:Aisha said, "I borrowed a necklace from Asma' and it was lost. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a man to 
search for it and he found it. Then the time of the prayer became due and there was no water. They 
prayed (without ablution) and informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it, so the verse of Tayammum was 
revealed." Usaid bin Hudair said to `Aisha, "May Allah reward you. By Allah, whenever anything 
happened which you did not like, Allah brought good for you and for the Muslims in that."
Bukhari:337 Narrated Abu Juhaim Al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) came from the direction of Bir Jamal. A man met him and greeted him. But he did not 
return back the greeting till he went to a (mud) wall and wiped his face and hands with its dust 
(performed Tayammum) and then returned back the greeting.
Bukhari:338 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abza [??]:A man came to `Umar bin Al-Khattab and said, "I became Junub but no water was available." 
`Ammar bin Yasir said to `Umar, "Do you remember that you and I (became Junub while both of us) 
were together on a journey and you didn't pray but I rolled myself on the ground and prayed? I 
informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about it and he said, 'It would have been sufficient for you to do like this.' The 
Prophet then stroked lightly the earth with his hands and then blew off the dust and passed his hands 
over his face and hands."
Bukhari:339 Narrated Sa`id bin `Abdur Rahman bin Abza:(on the authority of his father who said) `Ammar said so (the above Statement). And Shu`ba stroked 
lightly the earth with his hands and brought them close to his mouth (blew off the dust) and passed 
them over his face and then the backs of his hands. `Ammar said, "Ablution (meaning Tayammum 
here) is sufficient for a Muslim if water is not available."
Bukhari:340 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abza:that while he was in the company of `Umar, `Ammar said to `Umar, "We were in a detachment and 
became Junub and I blew the dust off my hands (performed the rolling over the earth and prayed.)"
Bukhari:341 Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abza:`Ammar said to `Umar "I rolled myself in the dust and came to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, 'Passing dusted 
hands over the face and the backs of the hands is sufficient for you.' "
Bukhari:342 Narrated `Ammar:As above.
Bukhari:343 Narrated `Ammar:The Prophet (ﷺ) stroked the earth with his hands and then passed them over his face and the backs of his 
hands (while demonstrating Tayammum).
Bukhari:344 Narrated `Imran:Once we were traveling with the Prophet (ﷺ) and we carried on traveling till the last part of the night and 
then we (halted at a place) and slept (deeply). There is nothing sweeter than sleep for a traveler in the 
last part of the night. So it was only the heat of the sun that made us to wake up and the first to wake 
up was so and so, then so and so and then so and so (the narrator `Auf said that Abu Raja' had told 
him their names but he had forgotten them) and the fourth person to wake up was `Umar bin Al- 
Khattab. And whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) used to sleep, nobody would wake up him till he himself used to 
get up as we did not know what was happening (being revealed) to him in his sleep. So, `Umar got up 
and saw the condition of the people, and he was a strict man, so he said, "Allahu Akbar" and raised his 
voice with Takbir, and kept on saying loudly till the Prophet (ﷺ) got up because of it. When he got up, the 
people informed him about what had happened to them. He said, "There is no harm (or it will not be 
harmful). Depart!" So they departed from that place, and after covering some distance the Prophet (ﷺ) 
stopped and asked for some water to perform the ablution. So he performed the ablution and the call 
for the prayer was pronounced and he led the people in prayer. After he finished from the prayer, he 
saw a man sitting aloof who had not prayed with the people. He asked, "O so and so! What has 
prevented you from praying with us?" He replied, "I am Junub and there is no water. " The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Perform Tayammum with (clean) earth and that is sufficient for you." 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded on and the people complained to him of thirst. Thereupon he got down 
and called a person (the narrator `Auf added that Abu Raja' had named him but he had forgotten) and 
`Ali, and ordered them to go and bring water. So they went in search of water and met a woman who 
was sitting on her camel between two bags of water. They asked, "Where can we find water?" She 
replied, "I was there (at the place of water) this hour yesterday and my people are behind me." They 
requested her to accompany them. She asked, "Where?" They said, "To Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ." She said, 
"Do you mean the man who is called the Sabi, (with a new religion)?" They replied, "Yes, the same 
person. So come along." They brought her to the Prophet (ﷺ) and narrated the whole story. He said, "Help 
her to dismount." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a pot, then he opened the mouths of the bags and poured 
some water into the pot. Then he closed the big openings of the bags and opened the small ones and 
the people were called upon to drink and water their animals. 
So they all watered their animals and they (too) all quenched their thirst and also gave water to others 
and last of all the Prophet (ﷺ) gave a pot full of water to the person who was Junub and told him to pour it 
over his body. The woman was standing and watching all that which they were doing with her water. 
By Allah, when her water bags were returned the looked like as if they were more full (of water) than 
they had been before (Miracle of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to collect something 
for her; so dates, flour and Sawiq were collected which amounted to a good meal that was put in a 
piece of cloth. She was helped to ride on her camel and that cloth full of foodstuff was also placed in 
front of her and then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "We have not taken your water but Allah has given water 
to us." She returned home late. Her relatives asked her: "O so and so what has delayed you?" She said, 
"A strange thing! Two men met me and took me to the man who is called the Sabi' and he did such 
and such a thing. By Allah, he is either the greatest magician between this and this (gesturing with her 
index and middle fingers raising them towards the sky indicating the heaven and the earth) or he is 
Allah's true Apostle." 
Afterwards the Muslims used to attack the pagans around her abode but never touched her village. 
One day she said to her people, "I think that these people leave you purposely. Have you got any 
inclination to Islam?" They obeyed her and all of them embraced Islam. 
Abu `Abdullah said: The word Saba'a means "The one who has deserted his old religion and embraced 
a new religion." Abul 'Ailya [??] said, "The S`Abis are a sect of people of the Scripture who recite the 
Book of Psalms."
Bukhari:345 Narrated Abu Wail:Abu Musa said to `Abdullah bin Mas`ud, "If one does not find water (for ablution) can he give up the 
prayer?" `Abdullah replied, "If you give the permission to perform Tayammum they will perform 
Tayammum even if water was available if one of them found it cold." Abu Musa said, "What about 
the statement of `Ammar to `Umar?" `Abdullah replied, "`Umar was not satisfied by his statement."
Bukhari:346 Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama:I was with `Abdullah and Abu Musa; the latter asked the former, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! What is 
your opinion if somebody becomes Junub and no water is available?" `Abdullah replied, "Do not pray 
till water is found." Abu Musa said, "What do you say about the statement of `Ammar (who was 
ordered by the Prophet (ﷺ) to perform Tayammum). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: "Perform Tayammum and 
that would be sufficient." `Abdullah replied, "Don't you see that `Umar was not satisfied by `Ammar's 
statement?" Abu- Musa said, "All right, leave `Ammar's statement, but what will you say about this 
verse (of Tayammum)?" `Abdullah kept quiet and then said, "If we allowed it, then they would 
probably perform Tayammum even if water was available, if one of them found it (water) cold." The 
narrator added, "I said to Shaqiq, "Then did `Abdullah dislike to perform Tayammum because of 
this?" He replied, "Yes."
Bukhari:347 Narrated Al-A`mash:Shaqiq said, "While I was sitting with `Abdullah and Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari, the latter asked the 
former, 'If a person becomes Junub and does not find water for one month, can he perform 
Tayammum and offer his prayer?' (He applied in the negative). Abu Musa said, 'What do you say 
about this verse from Sura "Al-Ma'ida": When you do not find water then perform Tayammum with 
clean earth? `Abdullah replied, 'If we allowed it then they would probably perform Tayammum with 
clean earth even if water were available but cold.' I said to Shaqiq, 'You then disliked to perform 
Tayammum because of this?' Shaqiq said, 'Yes.' (Shaqiq added), "Abu Musa said, 'Haven't you heard 
the statement of `Ammar to `Umar? He said: I was sent out by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for some job and I 
became Junub and could not find water so I rolled myself over the dust (clean earth) like an animal 
does, and when I told the Prophet (ﷺ) of that he said, 'Like this would have been sufficient.' The Prophet (ﷺ) 
(saying so) lightly stroked the earth with his hand once and blew it off, then passed his (left) hand over 
the back of his right hand or his (right) hand over the back of his left hand and then passed them over 
his face.' So `Abdullah said to Abu- Musa, 'Don't you know that `Umar was not satisfied with 
`Ammar's statement?' " 
Narrated Shaqiq: While I was with `Abdullah and Abu Musa, the latter said to the former, "Haven't 
you heard the statement of `Ammar to `Umar? He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent you and me out and I 
became Junub and rolled myself in the dust (clean earth) (for Tayammum). When we came to Allah's 
Apostle I told him about it and he said, 'This would have been sufficient,' passing his hands over his 
face and the backs of his hands once only.' "
Bukhari:348 Narrated `Imran bin Husain Al-Khuza`i:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a person sitting aloof and not praying with the people. He asked him, "O so and 
so! What prevented you from offering the prayer with the people?" He replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I 
am Junub and there is no water." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform Tayammum with clean earth and that 
will be sufficient for you."
Bukhari:349 Narrated Abu Dhar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was at Mecca the roof of my house was opened and Gabriel descended, 
opened my chest, and washed it with Zamzam water. Then he brought a golden tray full of wisdom 
and faith and having poured its contents into my chest, he closed it. Then he took my hand and 
ascended with me to the nearest heaven, when I reached the nearest heaven, Gabriel said to the 
gatekeeper of the heaven, 'Open (the gate).' The gatekeeper asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel answered: 
'Gabriel.' He asked, 'Is there anyone with you?' Gabriel replied, 'Yes, Muhammad I is with me.' He 
asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel said, 'Yes.' So the gate was opened and we went over the nearest 
heaven and there we saw a man sitting with some people on his right and some on his left. When he 
looked towards his right, he laughed and when he looked toward his left he wept. Then he said, 
'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious son.' I asked Gabriel, 'Who is he?' He replied, 'He is Adam and 
the people on his right and left are the souls of his offspring. Those on his right are the people of 
Paradise and those on his left are the people of Hell and when he looks towards his right he laughs and 
when he looks towards his left he weeps.' 
Then he ascended with me till he reached the second heaven and he (Gabriel) said to its gatekeeper, 
'Open (the gate).' The gatekeeper said to him the same as the gatekeeper of the first heaven had said 
and he opened the gate. Anas said: "Abu Dhar added that the Prophet (ﷺ) met Adam, Idris, Moses, Jesus 
and Abraham, he (Abu Dhar) did not mention on which heaven they were but he mentioned that he 
(the Prophet (ﷺ) ) met Adam on the nearest heaven and Abraham on the sixth heaven. Anas said, "When 
Gabriel along with the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Idris, the latter said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious 
brother.' The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, 'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Idris." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I passed 
by Moses and he said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious brother.' I asked Gabriel, 'Who is he?' 
Gabriel replied, 'He is Moses.' Then I passed by Jesus and he said, 'Welcome! O pious brother and 
pious Prophet.' I asked, 'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Jesus. 
Then I passed by Abraham and he said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious son.' I asked Gabriel, 
'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Abraham. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'Then Gabriel ascended with me to a 
place where I heard the creaking of the pens." Ibn Hazm and Anas bin Malik said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Then Allah enjoined fifty prayers on my followers when I returned with this order of Allah, I passed 
by Moses who asked me, 'What has Allah enjoined on your followers?' I replied, 'He has enjoined 
fifty prayers on them.' Moses said, 'Go back to your Lord (and appeal for reduction) for your followers 
will not be able to bear it.' (So I went back to Allah and requested for reduction) and He reduced it to 
half. When I passed by Moses again and informed him about it, he said, 'Go back to your Lord as your 
followers will not be able to bear it.' So I returned to Allah and requested for further reduction and 
half of it was reduced. I again passed by Moses and he said to me: 'Return to your Lord, for your 
followers will not be able to bear it. So I returned to Allah and He said, 'These are five prayers and 
they are all (equal to) fifty (in reward) for My Word does not change.' I returned to Moses and he told 
me to go back once again. I replied, 'Now I feel shy of asking my Lord again.' Then Gabriel took me 
till we '' reached Sidrat-il-Muntaha (Lote tree of; the utmost boundary) which was shrouded in colors, 
indescribable. Then I was admitted into Paradise where I found small (tents or) walls (made) of pearls 
and its earth was of musk."
Bukhari:350 Narrated `Aisha:the mother of believers: Allah enjoined the prayer when He enjoined it, it was two rak`at only (in 
every prayer) both when in residence or on journey. Then the prayers offered on journey remained the 
same, but (the rak`at of) the prayers for non-travelers were increased.
Bukhari:351 Narrated Um `Atiya:We were ordered to bring out our menstruating women and veiled women in the religious gatherings 
and invocation of Muslims on the two `Id festivals. These menstruating women were to keep away 
from their Musalla. A woman asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ' What about one who does not have a veil?" 
He said, "Let her share the veil of her companion."
Bukhari:352 Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Munkadir:Once Jabir prayed with his Izar tied to his back while his clothes were Lying beside him on a wooden 
peg. Somebody asked him, "Do you offer your prayer in a single Izar?" He replied, "I did so to show it 
to a fool like you. Had anyone of us two garments in the lifetime of the Prophet?"
Bukhari:353 Narrated Muhammad bin Al Munkadir:I saw Jabir bin `Abdullah praying in a single garment and he said that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) praying 
in a single garment.
Bukhari:354 Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in one garment and crossed its ends.
Bukhari:355 Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering prayers in a single garment in the house of Um-Salama and he had crossed 
its ends around his shoulders.
Bukhari:356 Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama:In the house of Um-Salama I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offering prayers, wrapped in a single garment 
around his body with its ends crossed round his shoulders.
Bukhari:357 Narrated Abu Murra:(the freed slave of Um Hani) Um Hani, the daughter of Abi Talib said, "I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in 
the year of the conquest of Mecca and found him taking a bath and his daughter Fatima was screening 
him. I greeted him. He asked, 'Who is she?' I replied, 'I am Um Hani bint Abi Talib.' He said, 
'Welcome! O Um Hani.' When he finished his bath he stood up and prayed eight rak`at while wearing 
a single garment wrapped round his body and when he finished I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ! My brother 
has told me that he will kill a person whom I gave shelter and that person is so and so the son of 
Hubaira.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'We shelter the person whom you have sheltered.' " Um Hani added, "And 
that was before noon (Duha).
Bukhari:358 Narrated Abu Huraira:A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the offering of the prayer in a single garment. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
replied, "Has every one of you got two garments?"
Bukhari:359 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should offer prayer in a single garment that does not cover the 
shoulders."
Bukhari:360 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prays in a single garment must cross its ends (over the shoulders).
Bukhari:361 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith:I asked Jabir bin `Abdullah about praying in a single garment. He said, "I traveled with the Prophet (ﷺ) 
during some of his journeys, and I came to him at night for some purpose and I found him praying. At 
that time, I was wearing a single garment with which I covered my shoulders and prayed by his side. 
When he finished the prayer, he asked, 'O Jabir! What has brought you here?' I told him what I 
wanted. When I finished, he asked, 'O Jabir! What is this garment which I have seen and with which 
you covered your shoulders?' I replied, 'It is a (tight) garment.' He said, 'If the garment is large 
enough, wrap it round the body (covering the shoulders) and if it is tight (too short) then use it as an 
Izar (tie it around your waist only.)' "
Bukhari:362 Narrated Sahl:The men used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) with their Izars tied around their necks as boys used to do; 
therefore the Prophet (ﷺ) told the women not to raise their heads till the men sat down straight (while 
praying).
Bukhari:363 Narrated Mughira bin Shu`ba:Once I was traveling with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "O Mughira! take this container of water." I took it 
and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went far away till he disappeared. He answered the call of nature and was wearing 
a Syrian cloak. He tried to take out his hands from its sleeve but it was very tight so he took out his 
hands from under it. I poured water and he performed ablution like that for prayers and passed his wet 
hands over his Khuff (socks made from thick fabric or leather) and then prayed .
Bukhari:364 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was carrying stones (along) with the people of Mecca for (the building of) the 
Ka`ba wearing an Izar (waist-sheet cover), his uncle Al-`Abbas said to him, "O my nephew! (It would 
be better) if you take off your Izar and put it over your shoulders underneath the stones." So he took 
off his Izar and put it over his shoulders, but he fell unconscious and since then he had never been 
seen naked.
Bukhari:365 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man stood up and asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about praying in a single garment. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Has 
every one of you two garments?" A man put a similar question to `Umar on which he replied, "When 
Allah makes you wealthier then you should clothe yourself properly during prayers. Otherwise one 
can pray with an Izar and a Rida' (a sheet covering the upper part of the body.) Izar and a shirt, Izar 
and a Qaba', trousers and a Rida, trousers and a shirt or trousers and a Qaba', Tubban and a Qaba' or 
Tubban and a shirt." (The narrator added, "I think that he also said a Tubban and a Rida. ")
Bukhari:366 Narrated Ibn `Umar:A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "What should a Muhrim wear?" He replied, "He should not wear 
shirts, trousers, a burnus (a hooded cloak), or clothes which are stained with saffron or Wars (a kind of 
perfume). Whoever does not find a sandal to wear can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or 
leather), but these should be cut short so as not to cover the ankles.
Bukhari:367 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Ishtimal-As-Samma' (wrapping one's body with a garment so that one cannot 
raise its end or take one's hand out of it). He also forbade Al-Ihtiba' (sitting on buttocks with knees 
close to `Abdomen and feet apart with the hands circling the knees) while wrapping oneself with a 
single garment, without having a part of it over the private parts.
Bukhari:368 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of sales i.e. Al-Limais and An-Nibadh (the former is a kind of sale in 
which the deal is completed if the buyer touches a thing, without seeing or checking it properly and 
the latter is a kind of a sale in which the deal is completed when the seller throws a thing towards the 
buyer giving him no opportunity to see, touch or check it) and (the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade) also Ishtimal-As- 
Samma' and Al-Ihtiba' in a single garment.
Bukhari:369 Narrated Abu Huraira:On the Day of Nahr (10th of Dhul-Hijja, in the year prior to the last Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) when Abu 
Bakr was the leader of the pilgrims in that Hajj) Abu Bakr sent me along with other announcers to 
Mina to make a public announcement: "No pagan is allowed to perform Hajj after this year and no 
naked person is allowed to perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent `Ali to 
read out the Surat Bara'a (at-Tauba) to the people; so he made the announcement along with us on the 
day of Nahr in Mina: "No pagan is allowed to perform Hajj after this year and no naked person is 
allowed to perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba."
Bukhari:370 Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Munkadir:I went to Jabir bin `Abdullah and he was praying wrapped in a garment and his Rida was Lying beside 
him. When he finished the prayers, I said "O `Abdullah! You pray (in a single garment) while your 
Rida' is lying beside you." He replied, "Yes, I did it intentionally so that the ignorant ones like you 
might see me. I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying like this. "
Bukhari:371 Narrated `Abdul `Aziz:Anas said, 'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invaded Khaibar, we offered the Fajr prayer there (early in the 
morning) when it was still dark. The Prophet (ﷺ) rode and Abu Talha rode too and I was riding behind 
Abu Talha. The Prophet (ﷺ) passed through the lane of Khaibar quickly and my knee was touching the 
thigh of the Prophet (ﷺ) . He uncovered his thigh and I saw the whiteness of the thigh of the Prophet. 
When he entered the town, he said, 'Allahu Akbar! Khaibar is ruined. Whenever we approach near a 
(hostile) nation (to fight) then evil will be the morning of those who have been warned.' He repeated 
this thrice. The people came out for their jobs and some of them said, 'Muhammad (has come).' (Some 
of our companions added, "With his army.") We conquered Khaibar, took the captives, and the booty 
was collected. Dihya came and said, 'O Allah's Prophet! Give me a slave girl from the captives.' The 
Prophet said, 'Go and take any slave girl.' He took Safiya bint Huyai. A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s! You gave Safiya bint Huyai to Dihya and she is the chief mistress of the 
tribes of Quraidha and An-Nadir and she befits none but you.' So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Bring him along 
with her.' So Dihya came with her and when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw her, he said to Dihya, 'Take any slave 
girl other than her from the captives.' Anas added: The Prophet (ﷺ) then manumitted her and married her." 
Thabit asked Anas, "O Abu Hamza! What did the Prophet (ﷺ) pay her (as Mahr)?" He said, "Her self was 
her Mahr for he manumitted her and then married her." Anas added, "While on the way, Um Sulaim 
dressed her for marriage (ceremony) and at night she sent her as a bride to the Prophet (ﷺ) . So the 
Prophet was a bridegroom and he said, 'Whoever has anything (food) should bring it.' He spread out a 
leather sheet (for the food) and some brought dates and others cooking butter. (I think he (Anas) 
mentioned As-Sawaq). So they prepared a dish of Hais (a kind of meal). And that was Walima (the 
marriage banquet) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ."
Bukhari:372 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr prayer and some believing women covered with their veiling 
sheets used to attend the Fajr prayer with him and then they would return to their homes unrecognized 
.
Bukhari:373 Narrated `Aisha:the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in a Khamisa (a square garment) having marks. During the prayer, he looked at its 
marks. So when he finished the prayer he said, "Take this Khamisa of mine to Abu Jahm and get me 
his Inbijaniya (a woolen garment without marks) as it (the Khamisa) has diverted my attention from 
the prayer."Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I was looking at its (Khamisa's) marks during the prayers and I was afraid that it 
may put me in trial (by taking away my attention).
Bukhari:374 Narrated Anas:`Aisha had a Qiram (a thin marked woolen curtain) with which she had screened one side of her home. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take away this Qiram of yours, as its pictures are still displayed in front of me 
during my prayer (i.e. they divert my attention from the prayer).
Bukhari:375 Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a silken Farruj [??] as a present. He wore it while praying. When he had 
finished his prayer, he took it off violently as if with a strong aversion to it and said, "It is not the 
dress of Allah-fearing pious people."
Bukhari:376 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a red leather tent and I saw Bilal taking the remaining water with which the 
Prophet had performed ablution. I saw the people taking the utilized water impatiently and whoever 
got some of it rubbed it on his body and those who could not get any took the moisture from the 
others' hands. Then I saw Bilal carrying a short spear (or stick) which he planted in the ground. The 
Prophet came out tucking up his red cloak, and led the people in prayer and offered two rak`at (facing 
the Ka`ba) taking a short spear (or stick) as a Sutra for his prayer. I saw the people and animals 
passing in front of him beyond the stick.
Bukhari:377 Narrated Abu Hazim:Sahl bin Sa`d was asked about the (Prophet's) pulpit as to what thing it was made of? Sahl replied: 
"None remains alive amongst the people, who knows about it better than I. It was made of tamarisk 
(wood) of the forest. So and so, the slave of so and so prepared it for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . When it was 
constructed and place (in the Mosque), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on it facing the Qibla and said 'Allahu 
Akbar', and the people stood behind him (and led the people in prayer). He recited and bowed and the 
people bowed behind him. Then he raised his head and stepped back, got down and prostrated on the 
ground and then he again ascended the pulpit, recited, bowed, raised his head and stepped back, got 
down and prostrate on the ground. So, this is what I know about the pulpit." 
Ahmad bin Hanbal said, "As the Prophet (ﷺ) was at a higher level than the people, there is no harm 
according to the above-mentioned Hadith if the Imam is at a higher level than his followers during the 
prayers."
Bukhari:378 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell off a horse and his leg or shoulder got injured. He swore that he would not 
go to his wives for one month and he stayed in a Mashruba [??] (attic room) having stairs made of 
date palm trunks. So his companions came to visit him, and he led them in prayer sitting, whereas his 
companions were standing. When he finished the prayer, he said, "Imam is meant to be followed, so 
when he says 'Allahu Akbar,' say 'Allahu Akbar' and when he bows, bow and when he prostrates, 
prostrate and if he prays standing pray, standing. After the 29th day the Prophet (ﷺ) came down (from the 
attic room) and the people asked him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You swore that you will not go to your 
wives for one month." He said, "The month is 29 days."
Bukhari:379 Narrates `Abdullah bin Shaddad:Maimuna said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying while I was in my menses, sitting beside him and 
sometimes his clothes would touch me during his prostration." Maimuna added, "He prayed on a 
Khumra (a small mat sufficient just for the face and the hands while prostrating during prayers).
Bukhari:380 Narrated 'Is-haq:Anas bin Malik said, "My grandmother Mulaika invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for a meal which she herself 
had prepared. He ate from it and said, 'Get up! I will lead you in the prayer.' " Anas added, "I took my 
Hasir, washed it with water as it had become dark because of long use and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on it. 
The orphan (Damira or Ruh) and I aligned behind him and the old lady (Mulaika) stood behind us. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in the prayer and offered two rak`at and then left."
Bukhari:381 Narrated Maimuna:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray on Khumra.
Bukhari:382 Narrated Abu Salama:`Aisha the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I used to sleep in front o Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and my legs were 
opposite his Qibla and in prostration he pushed my legs and I withdrew then and when he stood, I 
stretched them.' `Aisha added, "In those days the houses were without lights."
Bukhari:383 Narrated `Aisha:Allah Apostle prayed while I was lying like a dead body on his family bed between him and his Qibla.
Bukhari:384 Narrated `Urwa:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed while `Aisha was lying between him and his Qibla on the bed on which they used 
to sleep.
Bukhari:385 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and some of us used to place the ends of their clothes at the place of 
prostration because of scorching heat.
Bukhari:386 Narrated Abu Maslama:Sa`id bin Yazid Al-Azdi: I asked Anas bin Malik whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had ever, prayed with his shoes 
on. He replied "Yes."
Bukhari:387 Narrated Ibrahim:Hammam bin Al-Harith said, "I saw Jarir bin `Abdullah urinating. Then he performed ablution and 
passed his (wet) hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather), stood up and prayed. 
He was asked about it. He replied that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) doing the same." They approved of this 
narration as Jarir was one of those who embraced Islam very late.
Bukhari:388 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba:I helped the Prophet (ﷺ) in performing ablution and he passed his wet 
     hands over his Khuffs and prayed.
Bukhari:389 Narrated Hudhaifa that he saw a person bowing and prostrating imperfectly. When he finished his Salat, Hudhaifa told him that he had not offered Salat. The subnarrator added, "I think that Hudhaifa also said:Were you to die you would die on a "Sunna" (legal way) other than that of Muhammad (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:390 Narrated 'Abdullah bin Malik:Ibn Buhaina, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed, he used to separate his arms 
     from his body so widely that the whiteness of his armpits was 
     visible."
Bukhari:391 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prays like us and faces our Qibla and eats our slaughtered animals is a 
Muslim and is under Allah's and His Apostle's protection. So do not betray Allah by betraying those 
who are in His protection."
Bukhari:392 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to fight the people till they say: 'None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah.' And if they say so, pray like our prayers, face our Qibla and slaughter as we 
slaughter, then their blood and property will be sacred to us and we will not interfere with them except 
legally and their reckoning will be with Allah."
Bukhari:393 Narrated Maimun bin Siyah that he asked Anas bin 
Malik, "O Abu Hamza! What makes the life and property of a person sacred?" He replied, "Whoever 
says, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah', faces our Qibla during the prayers, prays like us 
and eats our slaughtered animal, then he is a Muslim, and has got the same rights and obligations as 
other Muslims have."
Bukhari:394 Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While defecating, neither face nor turn your back to the Qibla but face either east 
or west." Abu Aiyub added. "When we arrived in Sham we came across some lavatories facing the 
Qibla; therefore we turned ourselves while using them and asked for Allah's forgiveness."
Bukhari:395 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:I asked Ibn `Umar, "Can a person who has performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba for `Umra but has 
not performed the (Sa`i) Tawaf of Safa and Marwa, have a sexual relation with his wife?" Ibn `Umar 
replied "When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca he performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba 
(circumambulated it seven times) and offered a two-rak`at prayer (at the place) behind the station (of 
Abraham) and then performed the Tawaf (Sa`i) of Safa and Marwa, and verily in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you 
have a good example." Then we put the same question to Jabir bin `Abdullah and he too replied, "He 
should not go near his wife (for sexual relation) till he has finished the Tawaf of Safa and Marwa."
Bukhari:396 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:I asked Ibn `Umar, "Can a person who has performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba for `Umra but has 
not performed the (Sa`i) Tawaf of Safa and Marwa, have a sexual relation with his wife?" Ibn `Umar 
replied "When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca he performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba 
(circumambulated it seven times) and offered a two-rak`at prayer (at the place) behind the station (of 
Abraham) and then performed the Tawaf (Sa`i) of Safa and Marwa, and verily in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you 
have a good example." Then we put the same question to Jabir bin `Abdullah and he too replied, "He 
should not go near his wife (for sexual relation) till he has finished the Tawaf of Safa and Marwa."
Bukhari:397 Narrated Mujahid:Someone came to Ibn `Umar and said, "Here is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entering the Ka`ba." Ibn `Umar said, 
"I went there but the Prophet (ﷺ) had come out of the Ka`ba and I found Bilal standing between its two 
doors. I asked Bilal, 'Did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray in the Ka`ba?' Bilal replied, 'Yes, he prayed two rak`at 
between the two pillars which are to your left on entering the Ka`ba. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out 
and offered a two-rak`at prayer facing the Ka`ba.' "
Bukhari:398 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba, he invoked Allah in each and every side of it and did not pray 
till he came out of it, and offered a two-rak`at prayer facing the Ka`ba and said, "This is the Qibla."
Bukhari:399 Narrated Bara' bin `Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed facing Baitul-Maqdis for sixteen or seventeen months but he loved to face the 
Ka`ba (at Mecca) so Allah revealed: "Verily, We have seen the turning of your face to the heaven!" 
(2:144) So the Prophet (ﷺ) faced the Ka`ba and the fools amongst the people namely "the Jews" said, 
"What has turned them from their Qibla (Baitul-Maqdis) which they formerly observed"" (Allah 
revealed): "Say: 'To Allah belongs the East and the West. He guides whom he will to a straight path'." 
(2:142) A man prayed with the Prophet (facing the Ka`ba) and went out. He saw some of the Ansar 
praying the `Asr prayer with their faces towards Baitul-Maqdis, he said, "I bear witness that I prayed 
with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) facing the Ka`ba." So all the people turned their faces towards the Ka`ba.
Bukhari:400 Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray (optional, non-obligatory prayer) while riding on his mount (Rahila) 
wherever it turned, and whenever he wanted to pray the compulsory prayer he dismounted and prayed 
facing the Qibla.
Bukhari:401 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed (and the sub-narrator Ibrahim said, "I do not know whether he prayed more or less 
than usual"), and when he had finished the prayers he was asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Has there been 
any change in the prayers?" He said, "What is it?' The people said, "You have prayed so much and so 
much." So the Prophet (ﷺ) bent his legs, faced the Qibla and performed two prostration's (of Sahu) and 
finished his prayers with Taslim (by turning his face to right and left saying: 'As-Salamu `Alaikum- 
Warahmat-ullah'). When he turned his face to us he said, "If there had been anything changed in the 
prayer, surely I would have informed you but I am a human being like you and liable to forget like 
you. So if I forget remind me and if anyone of you is doubtful about his prayer, he should follow what 
he thinks to be correct and complete his prayer accordingly and finish it and do two prostrations (of 
Sahu).
Bukhari:402 Narrated `Umar (bin Al-Khattab):My Lord agreed with me in three things: 
-1. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I wish we took the station of Abraham as our praying place (for some of 
our prayers). So came the Divine Inspiration: And take you (people) the station of Abraham as a place 
of prayer (for some of your prayers e.g. two rak`at of Tawaf of Ka`ba)". (2.125) 
-2. And as regards the (verse of) the veiling of the women, I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I wish you 
ordered your wives to cover themselves from the men because good and bad ones talk to them.' So the 
verse of the veiling of the women was revealed. 
-3. Once the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) made a united front against the Prophet (ﷺ) and I said to them, 'It may 
be if he (the Prophet) divorced you, (all) that his Lord (Allah) will give him instead of you wives 
better than you.' So this verse (the same as I had said) was revealed." (66.5).
Bukhari:403 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:While the people were offering the Fajr prayer at Quba' (near Medina), someone came to them and 
said: "It has been revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) tonight, and he has been ordered to pray facing the 
Ka`ba." So turn your faces to the Ka`ba. Those people were facing Sham (Jerusalem) so they turned 
their faces towards Ka`ba (at Mecca).
Bukhari:404 Narrated `Abdullah:"Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered five rak`at in Zuhr prayer. He was asked, "Is there an increase in the 
prayer?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "And what is it?" They said, "You have prayed five rak`at.' So he bent his 
legs and performed two prostrations (of Sahu).
Bukhari:405 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw some sputum in the direction of the Qibla (on the wall of the mosque) and he 
disliked that and the sign of disgust was apparent from his face. So he got up and scraped it off with 
his hand and said, "Whenever anyone of you stands for the prayer, he is speaking in private to his 
Lord or his Lord is between him and his Qibla. So, none of you should spit in the direction of the 
Qibla but one can spit to the left or under his foot." The Prophet (ﷺ) then took the corner of his sheet and 
spat in it and folded it and said, "Or you can do this. "
Bukhari:406 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw sputum on the wall of the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off. 
He faced the people and said, "Whenever any one of you is praying, he should not spit in front of him 
because in the prayer Allah is in front of him."
Bukhari:407 Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of faithful believers) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some nasal secretions, expectoration or sputum 
on the wall of the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off.
Bukhari:408 Narrated Abu Huraira and Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some expectoration on the wall of the mosque; he took gravel and scraped it off 
and said, "If anyone of you wanted to spit he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right but he 
could spit either on his left or under his left foot."
Bukhari:409 Narrated Abu Huraira and Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some expectoration on the wall of the mosque; he took gravel and scraped it off 
and said, "If anyone of you wanted to spit he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right but he 
could spit either on his left or under his left foot."
Bukhari:410 Narrated Abu Huraira and Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some expectoration on the wall of the mosque; he took gravel and scraped it off 
and said, "If anyone of you wanted to spit, he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right but 
could spit either on his left or under his left foot."
Bukhari:411 Narrated Abu Huraira and Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some expectoration on the wall of the mosque; he took gravel and scraped it off 
and said, "If anyone of you wanted to spit, he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right but 
could spit either on his left or under his left foot."
Bukhari:412 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should spit in front or on his right but he could spit either on his left 
or under his foot."
Bukhari:413 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer while in prayer is speaking in private to his Lord, so he should 
neither spit in front of him nor to his right side but he could spit either on his left or under his foot."
Bukhari:414 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw sputum on (the wall of) the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off 
with gravel. Then he forbade Spitting in front or on the right, but allowed it on one's left or under 
one's left foot.
Bukhari:415 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Spitting in the mosque is a sin and its expiation is to bury it."
Bukhari:416 Narrated Abu Huraira:Prophet said, "If anyone of you stands for prayer, he should not spit in front of him because in prayer 
he is speaking in private to Allah and he should not spit on his right as there is an angel, but he can 
spit either on his left or under his left foot and bury it (i.e. expectoration).
Bukhari:417 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw expectoration (on the wall of the mosque) in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it 
off with his hand. It seemed that he disliked it and the sign of disgust was apparent from his face. He 
said, "If anyone of you stands for the prayer, he is speaking in private to his Lord, (or) his Lord is 
between him and his Qibla, therefore he should not spit towards his Qibla, but he could spit either on 
his left or under his foot." Then he took the corner of his sheet and spat in it, folded it and said, "Or do 
this."
Bukhari:418 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you consider or see that my face is towards the Qibla? By Allah, neither 
your submissiveness nor your bowing is hidden from me, surely I see you from my back."
Bukhari:419 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in a prayer and then got up on the pulpit and said, "In your prayer and bowing, I 
certainly see you from my back as I see you (while looking at you.)"
Bukhari:420 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered for a horse race; the trained horses were to run from a place called Al-Hafya' 
to Thaniyat Al-Wada` and the horses which were not trained were to run from Al-Thaniya to the 
Masjid (mosque of) Bani Zuraiq. The sub narrator added: Ibn `Umar was one of those who took part 
in the race.
Bukhari:421 Narrated Anas:Some goods came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from Bahrain. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the people to spread them in 
the mosque --it was the biggest amount of goods Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had ever received. He left for prayer 
and did not even look at it. After finishing the prayer, he sat by those goods and gave from those to 
everybody he saw. Al-`Abbas came to him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! give me (something) too, 
because I gave ransom for myself and `Aqil". Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told him to take. So he stuffed his 
garment with it and tried to carry it away but he failed to do so. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Order 
someone to help me in lifting it." The Prophet (ﷺ) refused. He then said to the Prophet: Will you please 
help me to lift it?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) refused. Then Al-`Abbas threw some of it and tried to lift it (but 
failed). He again said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Order someone to help me to lift it." He refused. Al-`Abbas 
then said to the Prophet: "Will you please help me to lift it?" He again refused. Then Al-`Abbas threw 
some of it, and lifted it on his shoulders and went away. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on watching him till he 
disappeared from his sight and was astonished at his greediness. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not get up till the 
last coin was distributed.
Bukhari:422 Narrated Anas:I found the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque along with some people. He said to me, "Did Abu Talha send you?" 
I said, "Yes". He said, "For a meal?" I said, "Yes." Then he said to his companions, "Get up." They set 
out and I was ahead of them.
Bukhari:423 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If a man finds another man with his wife, (committing adultery) 
should the husband kill him?" Later on I saw them (the man and his wife) doing Li`an in the mosque 
(taking oaths, one accusing, and the other denying adultery).
Bukhari:424 Narrated `Itban bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to my house and said, "Where do you like me to pray?" I pointed to a place. The 
Prophet then said, "Allahu Akbar", and we aligned behind him and he offered a two-rak`at prayer.
Bukhari:425 Narrated `Itban bin Malik:who was one of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and one of the Ansar's who took part in the battle 
of Badr: I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I have weak eyesight and I lead my 
people in prayers. When it rains the water flows in the valley between me and my people so I cannot 
go to their mosque to lead them in prayer. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I wish you would come to my house and 
pray in it so that I could take that place as a Musalla. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. "Allah willing, I will do 
so." Next day after the sun rose high, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked 
for permission to enter. I gave him permission and he did not sit on entering the house but said to me, 
"Where do you like me to pray?" I pointed to a place in my house. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood there and 
said, 'Allahu Akbar', and we all got up and aligned behind him and offered a two-rak`at prayer and 
ended it with Taslim. We requested him to stay for a meal called "Khazira" which we had prepared for 
him. Many members of our family gathered in the house and one of them said, "Where is Malik bin 
Al-Dukhaishin or Ibn Al-Dukhshun?" One of them replied, "He is a hypocrite and does not love Allah 
and His Apostle." Hearing that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not say so. Haven't you seen that he said, 
'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah' for Allah's sake only?" He said, "Allah and His 
Apostle know better. We have seen him helping and advising hypocrites." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has forbidden the (Hell) fire for those who say, 'None has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah' for Allah's sake only."
Bukhari:426 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to start every thing from the right (for good things) whenever it was possible in all 
his affairs; for example: in washing, combing or wearing shoes.
Bukhari:427 Narrated `Aisha:Um Habiba and Um Salama mentioned about a church they had seen in Ethiopia in which there were 
pictures. They told the Prophet (ﷺ) about it, on which he said, "If any religious man dies amongst those 
people they would build a place of worship at his grave and make these pictures in it. They will be the 
worst creature in the sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:428 Narrated Anas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived Medina he dismounted at `Awali-i-Medina amongst a tribe called Banu 
`Amr bin `Auf. He stayed there For fourteen nights. Then he sent for Bani An-Najjar and they came 
armed with their swords. As if I am looking (just now) as the Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting over his Rahila 
(Mount) with Abu Bakr riding behind him and all Banu An-Najjar around him till he dismounted at 
the courtyard of Abu Aiyub's house. The Prophet (ﷺ) loved to pray wherever the time for the prayer was 
due even at sheep-folds. Later on he ordered that a mosque should be built and sent for some people of 
Banu-An-Najjar and said, "O Banu An-Najjar! Suggest to me the price of this (walled) piece of land 
of yours." They replied, "No! By Allah! We do not demand its price except from Allah." Anas added: 
There were graves of pagans in it and some of it was unleveled and there were some date-palm trees 
in it. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the graves of the pagans be dug out and the unleveled land be level led 
and the date-palm trees be cut down . (So all that was done). They aligned these cut date-palm trees 
towards the Qibla of the mosque (as a wall) and they also built two stone side-walls (of the mosque). 
His companions brought the stones while reciting some poetic verses. The Prophet (ﷺ) was with them and 
he kept on saying, "There is no goodness except that of the Hereafter, O Allah! So please forgive the 
Ansars and the emigrants. "
Bukhari:429 Narrated Abu Al-Taiyah [??]:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the sheep fold." Later on I heard him saying, "He prayed in the 
sheep folds before the construction of the, mosque."
Bukhari:430 Narrated Nafi`:"I saw Ibn `Umar praying while taking his camel as a Sutra in front of him and he said, "I saw the 
Prophet doing the same."
Bukhari:431 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The sun eclipsed and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the eclipse prayer and said, "I have been shown the 
Hellfire (now) and I never saw a worse and horrible sight than the sight I have seen today."
Bukhari:432 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) had said, "Offer some of your prayers (Nawafil) at home, and do not take your houses as 
graves."
Bukhari:433 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not enter (the places) of these people where Allah's punishment had fallen 
unless you do so weeping. If you do not weep, do not enter (the places of these people) because 
Allah's curse and punishment which fell upon them may fall upon you."
Bukhari:434 Narrated `Aisha:Um Salama told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about a church which she had seen in Ethiopia and which was called 
Mariya. She told him about the pictures which she had seen in it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any 
righteous pious man dies amongst them, they would build a place of worship at his grave and make 
these pictures in it; they are the worst creatures in the sight of Allah."
Bukhari:435 Narrated `Aisha and `Abdullah bin `Abbas:When the last moment of the life of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came he started putting his 'Khamisa' on his face 
and when he felt hot and short of breath he took it off his face and said, "May Allah curse the Jews 
and Christians for they built the places of worship at the graves of their Prophets." The Prophet (ﷺ) was 
warning (Muslims) of what those had done.
Bukhari:436 Narrated `Aisha and `Abdullah bin `Abbas:When the last moment of the life of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came he started putting his 'Khamisa' on his face 
and when he felt hot and short of breath he took it off his face and said, "May Allah curse the Jews 
and Christians for they built the places of worship at the graves of their Prophets." The Prophet (ﷺ) was 
warning (Muslims) of what those had done.
Bukhari:437 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's curse be on the Jews for they built the places of worship at the 
graves of their Prophets."
Bukhari:438 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been given five things which were not given to any amongst the Prophets 
before me. These are: 
-1. Allah made me victorious by awe (by His frightening my enemies) for a distance of one month's 
journey. 
-2. The earth has been made for me (and for my followers) a place for praying and a thing to perform 
Tayammum. Therefore my followers can pray wherever the time of a prayer is due. 
-3. The booty has been made Halal (lawful) for me (and was not made so for anyone else). 
-4. Every Prophet used to be sent to his nation exclusively but I have been sent to all mankind. 
-5. I have been given the right of intercession (on the Day of Resurrection.)
Bukhari:439 Narrated `Aisha:There was a black slave girl belonging to an 'Arab tribe and they manumitted her but she remained 
with them. The slave girl said, "Once one of their girls (of that tribe) came out wearing a red leather 
scarf decorated with precious stones. It fell from her or she placed it somewhere. A kite passed by that 
place, saw it Lying there and mistaking it for a piece of meat, flew away with it. Those people 
searched for it but they did not find it. So they accused me of stealing it and started searching me and 
even searched my private parts." The slave girl further said, "By Allah! while I was standing (in that 
state) with those people, the same kite passed by them and dropped the red scarf and it fell amongst 
them. I told them, 'This is what you accused me of and I was innocent and now this is it.' " `Aisha 
added: That slave girl came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and embraced Islam. She had a tent or a small room 
with a low roof in the mosque. Whenever she called on me, she had a talk with me and whenever she 
sat with me, she would recite the following: "The day of the scarf (band) was one of the wonders of 
our Lord, verily He rescued me from the disbelievers' town. `Aisha added: "Once I asked her, 'What is 
the matter with you? Whenever you sit with me, you always recite these poetic verses.' On that she 
told me the whole story. "
Bukhari:440 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said: I used to sleep in the mosque of the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was young and 
unmarried.
Bukhari:441 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Fatima's house but did not find `Ali there. So he asked, "Where is your 
cousin?" She replied, "There was something between us and he got angry with me and went out. He 
did not sleep (midday nap) in the house." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked a person to look for him. That person 
came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He (Ali) is sleeping in the mosque." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went there 
and `Ali was lying. His upper body cover had fallen down to one side of his body and he was covered 
with dust. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started cleaning the dust from him saying: "Get up! O Aba Turab. Get up! 
O Aba Turab (literally means: O father of dust).
Bukhari:442 Narrated Abu Huraira:I saw seventy of As-Suffa men and none of them had a Rida' (a garment covering the upper part of the 
body). They had either Izars (only) or sheets which they tied round their necks. Some of these sheets 
reached the middle of their legs and some reached their heels and they used to gather them with their 
hands lest their private parts should become naked.
Bukhari:443 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque (the sub-narrator Mas`ar thought that Jabir had said, "In the 
forenoon.") He ordered me to pray two rak`at. He owed me some money and he repaid it to me and 
gave more than what was due to me.
Bukhari:444 Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Aslami:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you enters a mosque, he should pray two rak`at before sitting."
Bukhari:445 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The angels keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for anyone of you, as long as he 
is at his Musalla (praying place) and he does not pass wind (Hadath). They say, 'O Allah! Forgive 
him, O Allah! be Merciful to him."
Bukhari:446 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the mosque was built of adobes, its roof of the leaves of date-palms 
and its pillars of the stems of date-palms. Abu Bakr did not alter it. `Umar expanded it on the same 
pattern as it was in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) by using adobes, leaves of date-palms and changing 
the pillars into wooden ones. `Uthman changed it by expanding it to a great extent and built its walls 
with engraved stones and lime and made its pillars of engraved stones and its roof of teak wood.
Bukhari:447 Narrated `Ikrima:Ibn `Abbas said to me and to his son `Ali, "Go to Abu Sa`id and listen to what he narrates." So we 
went and found him in a garden looking after it. He picked up his Rida', wore it and sat down and 
started narrating till the topic of the construction of the mosque reached. He said, "We were carrying 
one adobe at a time while `Ammar was carrying two. The Prophet (ﷺ) saw him and started removing the 
dust from his body and said, "May Allah be Merciful to `Ammar. He will be inviting them (i.e. his 
murderers, the rebellious group) to Paradise and they will invite him to Hell-fire." `Ammar said, "I 
seek refuge with Allah from affliction."
Bukhari:448 Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent someone to a woman telling her to "Order her slave, carpenter, to prepare a 
wooden pulpit for him to sit on."
Bukhari:449 Narrated Jabir:A woman said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I get something constructed for you to sit on as I have a 
slave who is a carpenter?" He replied, "Yes, if you like." So she had that pulpit constructed.
Bukhari:450 Narrated 'Ubaidullah Al-Khaulani:I heard `Uthman bin `Affan saying, when people argued too much about his intention to reconstruct 
the mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "You have talked too much. I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'Whoever built 
a mosque, (Bukair thought that `Asim, another sub-narrator, added, "Intending Allah's Pleasure"), 
Allah would build for him a similar place in Paradise.' "
Bukhari:451 Narrated `Amr:I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "A man passed through the mosque carrying arrows. Allah's 
Apostle said to him, 'Hold them by their heads.' "
Bukhari:452 Narrated Abu Burda bin `Abdullah:(on the authority of his father) The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever passes through our mosques or markets 
with arrows should hold them by their heads lest he should injure a Muslim."
Bukhari:453 Narrated Hassan bin Thabit Al-Ansari:I asked Abu Huraira "By Allah! Tell me the truth whether you heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'O Hassan! 
Reply on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). O Allah! Help him with the Holy Spirit." Abu Huraira said, "Yes . 
"
Bukhari:454 Narrated `Aisha:Once I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the door of my house while some Ethiopians were playing in the 
mosque (displaying their skill with spears). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was screening me with his Rida' so as to 
enable me to see their display. (`Urwa said that `Aisha said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Ethiopians 
were playing with their spears.")
Bukhari:455 Narrated `Aisha:Once I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the door of my house while some Ethiopians were playing in the 
mosque (displaying their skill with spears). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was screening me with his Rida' so as to 
enable me to see their display. (`Urwa said that `Aisha said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Ethiopians 
were playing with their spears.")
Bukhari:456 Narrated `Aisha:Barirah came to seek my help regarding her manumission (freedom). I told herself you like I would pay your price 
to your masters but your Wala' (allegiance) would be for me." Her masters said, "If you like, you can 
pay what remains (of the price of her manumission), (Sufyan the sub-narrator once said), or if you like 
you can manumit her, but her (inheritance) Al-Wala would be for us. "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, I 
spoke to him about it. He said, "Buy her and manumit her. No doubt Al-Wala' is for the manumitted." 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on the pulpit (or Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ascended the pulpit as Sufyan once said), 
and said, "What about some people who impose conditions which are not present in Allah's Book 
(Laws)? Whoever imposes conditions which are not in Allah's Book (Laws), his conditions will be 
invalid even if he imposed them a hundred times."
Bukhari:457 Narrated Ka`b:In the mosque l asked Ibn Abi Hadrad to pay the debts which he owed to me and our voices grew 
louder. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard that while he was in his house. So he came to us raising the curtain of 
his room and said, "O Ka`b!" I replied, "Labaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "O Ka`b! reduce your 
debt to one half," gesturing with his hand. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have done so." Then Allah's 
Apostle said (to Ibn Abi Hadrad), "Get up and pay the debt to him."
Bukhari:458 Narrated Abu Huraira:A black man or a black woman used to sweep the mosque and he or she died. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked 
about her (or him). He was told that she (or he) had died. He said, "Why did you not inform me? 
Show me his grave (or her grave)." So he went to her (his) grave and offered her (his) funeral prayer."
Bukhari:459 Narrated `Aisha:When the verses of Surat "Al-Baqara"' about the usury Riba were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the 
mosque and recited them in front of the people and then banned the trade of alcohol.
Bukhari:460 Narrated Abu Rafi:Abu Huraira said, "A man or a woman used to clean the mosque." (A 
     sub-narrator said, 'Most probably a woman..') Then he narrated the 
     Hadith of the Prophet
Bukhari:461 Narrated Abu Huraira:"The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night a big demon (afreet) from the Jinns 
     came to me and wanted to interrupt my prayers (or said something 
     similar) but Allah enabled me to overpower him. I wanted to fasten him
     to one of the pillars of the mosque so that all of you could See him 
     in the morning but I remembered the statement of my brother Solomon 
     (as stated in Quran): My Lord! Forgive me and bestow on me a kingdom 
     such as shall not belong to anybody after me (38.35)." The sub 
     narrator Rauh said, "He (the demon) was dismissed humiliated."
Bukhari:462 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent some horsemen to Najd and they brought a man called Thumama bin Uthal from 
Bani Hanifa. They fastened him to one of the pillars of the mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) came and ordered 
them to release him. He went to a (garden of) date-palms near the mosque, took a bath and entered 
the mosque again and said, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah and Muhammad is His 
Apostle" (i.e. he embraced Islam).
Bukhari:463 Narrated `Aisha:On the day of Al-Khandaq (battle of the Trench' the medial arm vein of Sa`d bin Mu`ad [??] was 
injured and the Prophet (ﷺ) pitched a tent in the mosque to look after him. There was another tent for 
Banu Ghaffar in the mosque and the blood started flowing from Sa`d's tent to the tent of Bani Ghaffar. 
They shouted, "O occupants of the tent! What is coming from you to us?" They found that Sa`d' 
wound was bleeding profusely and Sa`d died in his tent.
Bukhari:464 Narrated Um Salama:I complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick. He told me to perform the Tawaf behind the people 
while riding. So I did so and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba and reciting the Sura 
starting with "Wat-tur wa kitabin mastur."
Bukhari:465 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Two of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) departed from him on a dark night and were led by two lights 
like lamps (going in front of them from Allah as a miracle) lighting the way in front of them, and 
when they parted, each of them was accompanied by one of these lights till he reached their 
(respective) houses.
Bukhari:466 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "Allah gave a choice to one of (His) slaves either to choose 
this world or what is with Him in the Hereafter. He chose the latter." Abu Bakr wept. I said to myself, 
"Why is this Sheikh weeping, if Allah gave choice to one (of His) slaves either to choose this world or 
what is with Him in the Here after and he chose the latter?" And that slave was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
himself. Abu Bakr knew more than us. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Bakr! Don't weep. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added: Abu- Bakr has favored me much with his property and company. If I were to take a Khalil 
from mankind I would certainly have taken Abu Bakr but the Islamic brotherhood and friendship is 
sufficient. Close all the gates in the mosque except that of Abu Bakr.
Bukhari:467 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his fatal illness came out with a piece of cloth tied round his head and sat on the 
pulpit. After thanking and praising Allah he said, "There is no one who had done more favor to me 
with life and property than Abu Bakr bin Abi Quhafa. If I were to take a Khalil, I would certainly have 
taken Abu- Bakr but the Islamic brotherhood is superior. Close all the small doors in this mosque 
except that of Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:468 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and sent for `Uthman bin Talha. He opened the gate of 
the Ka`ba and the Prophet, Bilal, Usama bin Zaid and `Uthman bin Talha entered the Ka`ba and then 
they closed its door (from inside). They stayed there for an hour, and then came out." Ibn `Umar 
added, "I quickly went to Bilal and asked him (whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had prayed). Bilal replied, 'He 
prayed in it.' I asked, 'Where?' He replied, 'Between the two pillars.' "Ibn `Umar added, "I forgot to 
ask how many rak`at he (the Prophet) had prayed in the Ka`ba."
Bukhari:469 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent some horse men to Najd and they brought a man called Thumama bin Uthal from 
Bani Hanifa. They fastened him to one of the pillars of the mosque.
Bukhari:470 Narrated Al-Sa'ib bin Yazid:I was standing in the mosque and somebody threw a gravel at me. I looked and found that he was 
`Umar bin Al-Khattab. He said to me, "Fetch those two men to me." When I did, he said to them, 
"Who are you? (Or) where do you come from?" They replied, "We are from Ta'if." `Umar said, "Were 
you from this city (Medina) I would have punished you for raising your voices in the mosque of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:471 Narrated Ka`b bin Malik:During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I asked Ibn Abi Hadrad in the mosque to pay the debts which he 
owed to me and our voices grew so loud that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard them while he was in his house. So 
he came to us after raising the curtain of his room. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Ka`b bin Malik!" I replied, 
"Labaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He gestured with his hand to me to reduce the debt to one half. I said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) have done it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to Ibn Hadrad), "Get up and pay it."
Bukhari:472 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, "While the Prophet (ﷺ) was on the pulpit, a man asked him how to offer the night prayers. 
He replied, 'Pray two rak`at at a time and then two and then two and so on, and if you are afraid of the 
dawn (the approach of the time of the Fajr prayer) pray one rak`a and that will be the witr for all the 
rak`at which you have offered." Ibn `Umar said, "The last rak`at of the night prayer should be odd, for 
the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered it to be so.
Bukhari:473 Narrated Ibn `Umar:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was delivering the sermon and asked him how to offer the night 
prayers. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'Pray two rak`at at a time and then two and then two and so on and if 
you are afraid of dawn (the approach of the time of the Fajr prayer) pray one rak`a and that will be the 
witr for all the rak`at which you have prayed." Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah bin `Umar: A man 
called the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque.
Bukhari:474 Narrated Abu Waqid al-Laithi:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting in the mosque (with some people) three men came, two of them 
came in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the third one went away, and then one of them found a place in 
the circle and sat there while the second man sat behind the gathering, and the third one went away. 
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his preaching, he said, "Shall I tell you about these three persons? One 
of them betook himself to Allah and so Allah accepted him and accommodated him; the second felt 
shy before Allah so Allah did the same for him and sheltered him in His Mercy (and did not punish 
him), while the third turned his face from Allah, and went away, so Allah turned His face from him 
likewise.
Bukhari:475 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:that his uncle said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying flat (on his back) in the mosque with one leg on the 
other." Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab that `Umar and `Uthman used to do the same.
Bukhari:476 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) I had seen my parents following Islam since I attained the age of intelligence. Not a day passed but the Prophet (ﷺ) visited us, both in the mornings and evenings. My father Abu Bakr thought of building a mosque in the courtyard of his house and he did so. He used to pray and recite the Qur'an in it. The pagan women and their children used to stand by him and look at him with surprise. Abu Bakr was a soft-hearted person and could not help weeping while reciting the Qur'an. The chiefs of the Quraish pagans became afraid of that (i.e. that their children and women might be 
affected by the recitation of Qur'an).
Bukhari:477 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prayer offered in congregation is twenty five times more superior (in reward) 
to the prayer offered alone in one's house or in a business center, because if one performs ablution and 
does it perfectly, and then proceeds to the mosque with the sole intention of praying, then for each 
step which he takes towards the mosque, Allah upgrades him a degree in reward and (forgives) 
crosses out one sin till he enters the mosque. When he enters the mosque he is considered in prayer as 
long as he is waiting for the prayer and the angels keep on asking for Allah's forgiveness for him and 
they keep on saying: 'O Allah! Be Merciful to him, O Allah! Forgive him, as long as he keeps on 
sitting at his praying place and does not pass wind. (See Hadith No. 620).
Bukhari:478 Narrated Ibn `Umar or Ibn `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers.
Bukhari:479 Narrated Ibn `Umar or Ibn `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers.
Bukhari:480 Narrated `Abdullah:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "O `Abdullah bin `Amr! What will be your condition when you will be left with the sediments of 
(worst) people?" (They will be in conflict with each other).
Bukhari:481 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer to a faithful believer is like the bricks of a wall, enforcing each 
other." While (saying that) the Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers.
Bukhari:482 Narrates Ibn Seereen:Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in one of the two `Isha' prayers (Abu Huraira named that 
prayer but I forgot it)." Abu Huraira added, "He prayed two rak`at and then finished the prayer with 
Taslim. He stood up near a piece of wood Lying across the mosque and leaned on it in such a way as 
if he was angry. Then he put his right hand over the left and clasped his hands by interlacing his 
fingers and then put his J right cheek on the back of his left hand. The people who were in haste left 
the mosque through its gates. They wondered whether the prayer was reduced. And amongst them 
were Abu Bakr and `Umar but they hesitated to ask the Prophet. A long-handed man called Dhul- 
Yadain asked the Prophet, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Have you forgotten or has the prayer been reduced?' 
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'I have neither forgotten nor has the prayer been reduced' The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'Is 
what Dhul Yadain has said true?' They (the people) said, 'Yes, it is true.' The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up again 
and led the prayer, completing the remaining prayer, forgotten by him, and performed Taslim, and 
then said, 'Allahu Akbar.' And then he did a prostration as he used to prostrate or longer than that. He 
then raised his head saying, 'Allahu Akbar; he then again said, 'Allahu Akbar', and prostrated as he 
used to prostrate or longer than that. Then he raised his head and said, 'Allahu Akbar.' " (The subnarrator 
added, "I think that they asked (Ibn Seereen) whether the Prophet (ﷺ) completed the prayer with 
Taslim. He replied, "I heard that `Imran bin Husain had said, 'Then he (the Prophet) did Taslim.")
Bukhari:483 Narrated Fudail bin Sulaiman:Musa bin `Uqba said, "I saw Salim bin `Abdullah looking for some places on the way and prayed 
there. He narrated that his father used to pray there, and had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) praying at those very 
places." 
Narrated Nafi` on the authority of Ibn `Umar who said, "I used to pray at those places." Musa the 
narrator added, "I asked Salim on which he said, 'I agree with Nafi` concerning those places, except 
the mosque situated at the place called Sharaf Ar-Rawha."
Bukhari:484 The narrated Hadith is about the various places on the way from Medina to Mecca where the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed and is not translated.
Bukhari:485 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:486 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:487 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:488 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:489 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:490 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:491 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:492 See translation forhadith 484above
Bukhari:493 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I came riding a she-ass when I had just attained the age of puberty. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was offering 
the prayer at Mina with no wall in front of him and I passed in front of some of the row. There I 
dismounted and let my she-ass loose to graze and entered the row and nobody objected to me about it.
Bukhari:494 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out on `Id day, he used to order that a Harba [??] (a short spear) to be 
planted in front of him (as a Sutra for his prayer) and then he used to pray facing it with the people 
behind him and used to do the same while on a journey. After the Prophet (ﷺ) , this practice was adopted 
by the Muslim rulers (who followed his traditions).
Bukhari:495 Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa:I heard my father saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) led us, and prayed a two-rak`at Zuhr prayer and then a tworak` 
at `Asr prayer at Al-Batha' [??] with a short spear (planted) in front of him (as a Sutra) while 
women and donkeys were passing in front of him (beyond that stick).
Bukhari:496 Narrated Sahl (bin Sa`d):The distance between the Musalla of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the wall was just sufficient for a sheep to 
pass through .
Bukhari:497 Narrated Salama:The distance between the wall of the mosque and the pulpit was hardly enough for a sheep to pass 
through.
Bukhari:498 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to get a Harba planted in front of him (as a Sutra) and pray behind it.
Bukhari:499 Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa:that he had heard his father saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us at midday and water was brought for 
his ablution. He performed ablution and led us in Zuhr and `Asr prayers with a short stpear (or stick) 
planted in front of him (as a Sutra), while women and donkeys were passing beyond it."
Bukhari:500 Narrated Anas Ibn Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went for answering the call of nature, I and another boy used to go after him 
with a staff, a stick or a short spear (or stick) and a tumbler of water and when he finished from 
answering the call of nature we would hand that tumbler of water to him.
Bukhari:501 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out at midday and offered a two-rak`at Zuhr and `Asr prayers at Al-Batha and a 
short spear (or stick) was planted in front of him (as a Sutra). He performed ablution and the people 
took the remaining water left after his ablution and rubbed their bodies with it.
Bukhari:502 Narrated Yazid bin Al `Ubaid:I used to accompany Salama bin Al-Akwa` and he used to pray behind the pillar which was near the 
place where the Qur'ans were kept. I said, "O Abu Muslim! I see you always seeking to pray behind 
this pillar." He replied, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) always seeking to pray near that pillar."
Bukhari:503 Narrated Anas:I saw the most famous people amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) hurrying towards the pillars at 
the Maghrib prayer before the Prophet (ﷺ) came for the prayer.
Bukhari:504 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba along with Usama bin Zaid, `Uthman bin Talha and Bilal and remained 
there for a long time. When they came out, I was the first man to enter the Ka`ba. I asked Bilal 
"Where did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray?" Bilal replied, "Between the two front Pillars."
Bukhari:505 Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba along with Usama bin Zaid, Bilal and 
`Uthman bin Talha Al-Hajabi and closed the door and stayed there for some time. I asked Bilal when 
he came out, 'What did the Prophet (ﷺ) do?' He replied, 'He offered prayer with one pillar to his left and 
one to his right and three behind.' In those days the Ka`ba was supported by six pillars." Malik said: 
"There were two pillars on his (the Prophet's) right side."
Bukhari:506 Narrated Nafi':Whenever 'Abdullah entered the Ka'bah, he used to go ahead leaving the door of the Ka'bah behind him. He would proceed on till the remaining distance between him and the opposite wall about three cubits. Then he would off prayer there where the Prophet (ﷺ) had offered Salat, as Bilal informed me. Ibn 'Umar said, "It does not matter for any of us to offer prayers at any place inside the Ka'bah."
Bukhari:507 Narrated Nafi`:"The Prophet (ﷺ) used to make his she-camel sit across and he would pray facing it (as a Sutra)." I asked, 
"What would the Prophet (ﷺ) do if the she-camel was provoked and moved?" He said, "He would take its 
camel-saddle and put it in front of him and pray facing its back part (as a Sutra). And Ibn `Umar used 
to do the same." (This indicates that one should not pray except behind a Sutra).
Bukhari:508 Narrated `Aisha:Do you make us (women) equal to dogs and donkeys? While I used to lie in my bed, the Prophet (ﷺ) 
would come and pray facing the middle of the bed. I used to consider it not good to stand in front of 
him in his prayers. So I used to slip away slowly and quietly from the foot of the bed till I got out of 
my guilt.
Bukhari:509 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (what is ascribed to him in the following Hadith):Narrated Abu Salih As-Samman:I saw Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri praying on a Friday, behind something which acted as a Sutra. A young 
man from Bani Abi Mu'ait [??] , wanted to pass in front of him, but Abu Sa`id repulsed him with a 
push on his chest. Finding no alternative he again tried to pass but Abu Sa`id pushed him with a 
greater force. The young man abused Abu Sa`id and went to Marwan and lodged a complaint against 
Abu Sa`id and Abu Sa`id followed the young man to Marwan who asked him, "O Abu Sa`id! What 
has happened between you and the son of your brother?" Abu Sa`id said to him, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) 
saying, 'If anybody amongst you is praying behind something as a Sutra and somebody tries to pass in 
front of him, then he should repulse him and if he refuses, he should use force against him for he is a 
Shaitan (a Satan).' "
Bukhari:510 Narrated Busr bin Sa`id:that Zaid bin Khalid sent him to Abi Juhaim to ask him what he had heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about 
a person passing in front of another person who was praying. Abu Juhaim replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, 'If the person who passes in front of another person in prayer knew the magnitude of his sin he 
would prefer to wait for 40 (days, months or years) rather than to pass in front of him." Abu An-Nadr 
said, "I do not remember exactly whether he said 40 days, months or years."
Bukhari:511 Narrated `Aisha:The things which annul the prayers were mentioned before me. They said, "Prayer is annulled by a 
dog, a donkey and a woman (if they pass in front of the praying people)." I said, "You have made us 
(i.e. women) dogs. I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying while I used to lie in my bed between him and the Qibla. 
Whenever I was in need of something, I would slip away. for I disliked to face him."
Bukhari:512 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray while I was sleeping across in his bed in front of him. Whenever he wanted 
to pray witr, he would wake me up and I would pray witr.
Bukhari:513 Narrated `Aisha:the wife of the Prophet, "I used to sleep in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with my legs opposite his Qibla 
(facing him); and whenever he prostrated, he pushed my feet and I withdrew them and whenever he 
stood, I stretched them." `Aisha added, "In those days there were no lamps in the houses."
Bukhari:514 Narrated `Aisha:The things which annul prayer were mentioned before me (and those were): a dog, a donkey and a 
woman. I said, "You have compared us (women) to donkeys and dogs. By Allah! I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) 
praying while I used to lie in (my) bed between him and the Qibla. Whenever I was in need of 
something, I disliked to sit and trouble the Prophet. So, I would slip away by the side of his feet."
Bukhari:515 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up at night and pray while I used to lie across 
between him and the Qibla on his family's bed.
Bukhari:516 Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying and he was carrying Umama the daughters of Zainab, the daughter of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she was the daughter of 'As bin Rabi`a bin `Abd Shams. When he prostrated, he 
put her down and when he stood, he carried her (on his neck).
Bukhari:517 Narrated Maimuna bint Al-Harith:My bed was beside the praying place (Musalla) of the Prophet (ﷺ) and sometimes his garment fell on me 
while I used to lie in my bed.
Bukhari:518 Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray while I used to sleep beside him during my periods (menses) and in 
prostration his garment used to touch me.
Bukhari:519 Narrated `Aisha:It is not good that you people have made us (women) equal to dogs and donkeys. No doubt I saw 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praying while I used to lie between him and the Qibla and when he wanted to 
prostrate, he pushed my legs and I withdrew them.
Bukhari:520 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun [??]:`Abdullah bin Mas`ud said, "While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba, there were some 
Quraish people sitting in a gathering. One of them said, 'Don't you see this (who does deeds just to 
show off)? Who amongst you can go and bring the dung, blood and the Abdominal contents 
(intestines, etc.) of the slaughtered camels of the family of so and so and then wait till he prostrates 
and put that in between his shoulders?' The most unfortunate amongst them (`Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait) 
went (and brought them) and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrated, he put them between his shoulders. The 
Prophet remained in prostration and they laughed so much so that they fell on each other. A passerby 
went to Fatima, who was a young girl in those days. She came running and the Prophet (ﷺ) was still in 
prostration. She removed them and cursed upon the Quraish on their faces. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
completed his prayer, he said, 'O Allah! Take revenge on Quraish.' He said so thrice and added, 'O 
Allah! take revenge on `Amr bin Hisham, `Utba bin Rabi`a, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, Al-Walid bin `Utba, 
Umaiya bin Khalaf, `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait and `Umar a bin Al-Walid." `Abdullah added, "By Allah! I 
saw all of them dead in the battle field on the day of Badr and they were dragged and thrown in the 
Qalib (a well) at Badr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, 'Allah's curse has descended upon the people of the 
Qalib (well).
Bukhari:521 Narrated Ibn Shihab:Once `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz delayed the prayer and `Urwa bin Az-Zubair went to him and said, 
"Once in 'Iraq, Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba delayed his prayers and Abi Mas`ud Al-Ansari went to him 
and said, 'O Mughira! What is this? Don't you know that once Gabriel came and offered the prayer 
(Fajr prayer) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed too, then he prayed again (Zuhr prayer) and so did Allah's 
Apostle and again he prayed (`Asr prayers and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same; again he prayed 
(Maghrib-prayer) and so did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and again prayed (`Isha prayer) and so did Allah's 
Apostle and (Gabriel) said, 'I was ordered to do so (to demonstrate the prayers prescribed to you)?'" 
`Umar (bin `Abdul `Aziz) said to `Urwa, "Be sure of what you Say. Did Gabriel lead Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
at the stated times of the prayers?" `Urwa replied, "Bashir bin Abi Mas`ud narrated like this on the 
authority of his father." `Urwa added, "Aisha told me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray `Asr prayer 
when the sunshine was still inside her residence (during the early time of `Asr).
Bukhari:522 Narrated Ibn Shihab:Once `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz delayed the prayer and `Urwa bin Az-Zubair went to him and said, 
"Once in 'Iraq, Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba delayed his prayers and Abi Mas`ud Al-Ansari went to him 
and said, 'O Mughira! What is this? Don't you know that once Gabriel came and offered the prayer 
(Fajr prayer) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed too, then he prayed again (Zuhr prayer) and so did Allah's 
Apostle and again he prayed (`Asr prayers and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same; again he prayed 
(Maghrib-prayer) and so did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and again prayed (`Isha prayer) and so did Allah's 
Apostle and (Gabriel) said, 'I was ordered to do so (to demonstrate the prayers prescribed to you)?'" 
`Umar (bin `Abdul `Aziz) said to `Urwa, "Be sure of what you Say. Did Gabriel lead Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
at the stated times of the prayers?" `Urwa replied, "Bashir bin Abi Mas`ud narrated like this on the 
authority of his father." `Urwa added, "Aisha told me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray `Asr prayer 
when the sunshine was still inside her residence (during the early time of `Asr).
Bukhari:523 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:"Once a delegation of `Abdul Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "We belong to such and such 
branch of the tribe of Rabi'ah and we can only come to you in the sacred months. Order us to do 
something good so that we may take it from you and also invite to it those whom we have left behind (at home)." So he said, "I order you to do four things and forbid you from four 
things:  To believe in Allah" - and then he explained it to them "to testify that none has the right to be 
worshipped but Allah and that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), to establish the prayers (at the stated times), to pay the Zakat (obligatory charity), to hand me the Khumus (fifth) if you acquire spoils of war. And I forbid from (using) Dubba, Hantam, Muqaiyyar, and Naqir (all these were utensils used for the preparation of alcoholic drinks).
Bukhari:524 Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:I gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for to offer prayers perfectly, to pay Zakat regularly, 
and to give good advice to every Muslim.
Bukhari:525 Narrated Shaqiq:that he had heard Hudhaifa saying, "Once I was sitting with `Umar and he said, 'Who amongst you 
remembers the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the afflictions?' I said, 'I know it as the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
said it.' `Umar said, 'No doubt you are bold.' I said, 'The afflictions caused for a man by his wife, 
money, children and neighbor are expiated by his prayers, fasting, charity and by enjoining (what is 
good) and forbidding (what is evil).' `Umar said, 'I did not mean that but I asked about that affliction 
which will spread like the waves of the sea.' I (Hudhaifa) said, 'O leader of the faithful believers! You 
need not be afraid of it as there is a closed door between you and it.' `Umar asked, Will the door be 
broken or opened?' I replied, 'It will be broken.' `Umar said, 'Then it will never be closed again.' I was 
asked whether `Umar knew that door. I replied that he knew it as one knows that there will be night 
before the tomorrow morning. I narrated a Hadith that was free from any misstatement" The subnarrator 
added that they deputized Masruq to ask Hudhaifa (about the door). Hudhaifa said, "The door 
was `Umar himself."
Bukhari:526 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:A man kissed a woman (unlawfully) and then went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him. Allah revealed: 
And offer prayers perfectly At the two ends of the day And in some hours of the night (i.e. the five 
compulsory prayers). Verily! good deeds remove (annul) the evil deeds (small sins) (11.114). The 
man asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Is it for me?" He said, "It is for all my followers."
Bukhari:527 Narrated `Abdullah:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "Which deed is the dearest to Allah?" He replied, "To offer the prayers at their 
early stated fixed times." I asked, "What is the next (in goodness)?" He replied, "To be good and 
dutiful to your parents" I again asked, "What is the next (in goodness)?" He replied, 'To participate in 
Jihad (religious fighting) in Allah's cause." `Abdullah added, "I asked only that much and if I had 
asked more, the Prophet (ﷺ) would have told me more."
Bukhari:528 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If there was a river at the door of anyone of you and he took a bath in 
it five times a day would you notice any dirt on him?" They said, "Not a trace of dirt would be left." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "That is the example of the five prayers with which Allah blots out (annuls) evil 
deeds."
Bukhari:529 Narrated Ghailan:Anas said, "I do not find (now-a-days) things as they were (practiced)
     at the time of the Prophet." Somebody said "The prayer (is as it 
     was.)" Anas said, "Have you not done in the prayer what you have 
     done?
Bukhari:530 Narrated Az-Zuhri that he visited Anas bin Malik at Damascus and found
     him weeping and asked him why he was weeping. He replied, "I do not 
     know anything which I used to know during the life-time of Allah's 
     Apostle except this prayer which is being lost (not offered as it 
     should be)."
Bukhari:531 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you offers his prayer he is speaking in private to his Lord. So 
he should not spit to his right but under his left foot." Qatada said, "He should not spit in front of him 
but to his left or under his feet." And Shu`ba said, "He should not spit in front of him, nor to his right 
but to his left or under his foot." Anas said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He should neither spit in the direction 
of his Qibla nor to his right but to his left or under his foot."
Bukhari:532 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do the prostration properly and do not put your forearms flat with elbows touching 
the ground like a dog. And if you want to spit, do not spit in front, nor to the right for the person in 
prayer is speaking in private to his Lord."
Bukhari:533 Narrated Abu Huraira and `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If it is very hot, then pray the Zuhr prayer when it becomes (a bit) cooler, as the 
severity of the heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire."
Bukhari:534 Narrated Abu Huraira and `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If it is very hot, then pray the Zuhr prayer when it becomes (a bit) cooler, as the 
severity of the heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire."
Bukhari:535 Narrated Abu Dhar:The Mu'adh-dhin (call-maker) of the Prophet (ﷺ) pronounced the Adhan (call) for the Zuhr prayer but the 
Prophet said, "Let it be cooler, let it be cooler." Or said, 'Wait, wait, because the severity of heat is 
from the raging of the Hell-fire. In severe hot weather, pray when it becomes (a bit) cooler and the 
shadows of hillocks appear."
Bukhari:536 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In very hot weather delay the Zuhr prayer till it becomes (a bit) cooler because the 
severity of heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire. The Hell-fire of Hell complained to its Lord saying: 
O Lord! My parts are eating (destroying) one another. So Allah allowed it to take two breaths, one in 
the winter and the other in the summer. The breath in the summer is at the time when you feel the 
severest heat and the breath in the winter is at the time when you feel the severest cold."
Bukhari:537 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In very hot weather delay the Zuhr prayer till it becomes (a bit) cooler because the 
severity of heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire. The Hell-fire of Hell complained to its Lord saying: 
O Lord! My parts are eating (destroying) one another. So Allah allowed it to take two breaths, one in 
the winter and the other in the summer. The breath in the summer is at the time when you feel the 
severest heat and the breath in the winter is at the time when you feel the severest cold."
Bukhari:538 Narrated Abu Sa`id:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Pray Zuhr prayer when it becomes (a bit) cooler as the severity of heat is 
from the raging of the Hell-fire."
Bukhari:539 Narrated Abu Dhar Al-Ghifar:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and the Mu'adh-dhin (call maker for the prayer) wanted to 
pronounce the Adhan (call) for the Zuhr prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Let it become cooler." He again 
(after a while) wanted to pronounce the Adhan but the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Let it become cooler till 
we see the shadows of hillocks." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The severity of heat is from the raging of the 
Hell-fire, and in very hot weather pray (Zuhr) when it becomes cooler."
Bukhari:540 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out as the sun declined at midday and offered the Zuhr prayer. He then stood on 
the pulpit and spoke about the Hour (Day of Judgment) and said that in it there would be tremendous 
things. He then said, "Whoever likes to ask me about anything he can do so and I shall reply as long as 
I am at this place of mine. Most of the people wept and the Prophet (ﷺ) said repeatedly, "Ask me." 
`Abdullah bin Hudhafa As-Sahmi stood up and said, "Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your 
father is Hudhafa." The Prophet (ﷺ) repeatedly said, "Ask me." Then `Umar knelt before him and said, 
"We are pleased with Allah as our Lord, Islam as our religion, and Muhammad as our Prophet." The 
Prophet then became quiet and said, "Paradise and Hell-fire were displayed in front of me on this wall 
just now and I have never seen a better thing (than the former) and a worse thing (than the latter).
Bukhari:541 Narrated Abu Al-Minhal:Abu Barza said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr (prayer) when one could recognize the person 
sitting by him (after the prayer) and he used to recite between 60 to 100 Ayat (verses) of the Qur'an. 
He used to offer the Zuhr prayer as soon as the sun declined (at noon) and the `Asr at a time when a 
man might go and return from the farthest place in Medina and find the sun still hot. (The sub-narrator 
forgot what was said about the Maghrib). He did not mind delaying the `Isha prayer to one third of the 
night or the middle of the night."
Bukhari:542 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When we offered the Zuhr prayers behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) we used to prostrate on our clothes to 
protect ourselves from the heat.
Bukhari:543 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed eight rak`at for the Zuhr and `Asr, and seven for the Maghrib and `Isha prayers 
in Medina." Aiyub said, "Perhaps those were rainy nights." Anas said, "May be."
Bukhari:544 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayer when the sunshine had not disappeared from my 
chamber.
Bukhari:545 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayers at a time when the sunshine was still inside my chamber 
and no shadow had yet appeared in it.
Bukhari:546 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the `Asr prayers at a time when the sunshine was still inside my chamber 
and no shadow had yet appeared in it.
Bukhari:547 Narrated Saiyar bin Salama:I along with my father went to Abu- Barza Al-Aslami and my father asked him, "How Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
used to offer the five compulsory congregational prayers?" Abu- Barza said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to 
pray the Zuhr prayer which you (people) call the first one at midday when the sun had just declined 
The `Asr prayer at a time when after the prayer, a man could go to the house at the farthest place in 
Medina (and arrive) while the sun was still hot. (I forgot about the Maghrib prayer). The Prophet (ﷺ) 
Loved to delay the `Isha which you call Al- `Atama [??] and he disliked sleeping before it and 
speaking after it. After the Fajr prayer he used to leave when a man could recognize the one sitting 
beside him and he used to recite between 60 to 100 Ayat (in the Fajr prayer) .
Bukhari:548 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray the `Asr prayer and after that if someone happened to go to the tribe of Bani `Amr 
bin `Auf, he would find them still praying the `Asr (prayer).
Bukhari:549 Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Uthman bin Sahl bin Hunaif:that he heard Abu Umama saying: We prayed the Zuhr prayer with `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz and then 
went to Anas bin Malik and found him offering the `Asr prayer. I asked him, "O uncle! Which prayer 
have you offered?" He said 'The `Asr and this is (the time of) the prayer of Allah s Apostle which we 
used to pray with him."
Bukhari:550 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayer at a time when the sun was still hot and high and if a 
person went to Al-`Awali (a place) of Medina, he would reach there when the sun was still high. Some 
of Al-`Awali of Medina were about four miles or so from the town.
Bukhari:551 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray the `Asr and after that if one of US went to Quba' he would arrive there while the sun 
was still high.
Bukhari:552 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever misses the `Asr prayer (intentionally) then it is as if he lost his family 
and property."
Bukhari:553 Narrated Abu Al-Mahh [??]:We were with Buraida in a battle on a cloudy day and he said, "Offer the `Asr prayer early as the 
Prophet said, "Whoever leaves the `Asr prayer, all his (good) deeds will be annulled."
Bukhari:554 Narrated Qais:Jarir said, "We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he looked at the moon--full-moon--and said, 'Certainly you 
will see your Lord as you see this moon and you will have no trouble in seeing Him. So if you can 
avoid missing (through sleep or business, etc.) a prayer before the sunrise (Fajr) and a prayer before 
sunset (`Asr), you must do so.' He then recited Allah's Statement: 
And celebrate the praises Of your Lord before the rising of the sun and before (its) setting." (50.39) 
Isma`il said, "Offer those prayers and do not miss them."
Bukhari:555 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Angels come to you in succession by night and day and all of them get together 
at the time of the Fajr and `Asr prayers. Those who have passed the night with you (or stayed with 
you) ascend (to the Heaven) and Allah asks them, though He knows everything about you, well, "In 
what state did you leave my slaves?" The angels reply: "When we left them they were praying and 
when we reached them, they were praying."
Bukhari:556 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you can get one rak`a of the `Asr prayer before sunset, he should 
complete his prayer. If any of you can get one rak`a of the Fajr prayer before sunrise, he should 
complete his prayer."
Bukhari:557 Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:My father said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'The period of your stay as compared to the previous 
nations is like the period equal to the time between the `Asr prayer and sunset. The people of the 
Torah were given the Torah and they acted (upon it) till midday then they were exhausted and were 
given one Qirat (of gold) each. And then the people of the Gospel were given the Gospel and they 
acted (upon it) till the `Asr prayer then they were exhausted and were! given one Qirat each. And then 
we were given the Qur'an and we acted (upon it) till sunset and we were given two Qirats each. On 
that the people of both the scriptures said, 'O our Lord! You have given them two Qirats and given us 
one Qirat, though we have worked more than they.' Allah said, 'Have I usurped some of your right?' 
They said, 'No.' Allah said: "That is my blessing I bestow upon whomsoever I wish."
Bukhari:558 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of Muslims, Jews and Christians is like the example of a man who 
employed laborers to work for him from morning till night. They worked till midday and they said, 
'We are not in need of your reward.' So the man employed another batch and said to them, 'Complete 
the rest of the day and yours will be the wages I had fixed (for the first batch). They worked until the 
time of the `Asr prayer and said, 'Whatever we have done is for you.' He employed another batch. 
They worked for the rest of the day till sunset, and they received the wages of the two former 
batches."
Bukhari:559 Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:We used to offer the Maghrib prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and after finishing the prayer one of us may go 
away and could still see as Par as the spots where one's arrow might reach when shot by a bow.
Bukhari:560 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the Zuhr at midday, and the `Asr at a time when the sun was still bright, the 
Maghrib after sunset (at its stated time) and the `Isha at a variable time. Whenever he saw the people 
assembled (for `Isha' prayer) he would pray earlier and if the people delayed, he would delay the 
prayer. And they or the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr Prayers when it still dark.
Bukhari:561 Narrated Salama:We used to pray the Maghrib prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) when the sun disappeared from the horizon.
Bukhari:562 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed seven rak`at together and eight rak`at together.
Bukhari:563 Narrated `Abdullah Al-Muzani:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not be influenced by bedouins regarding the name of your Maghrib prayer 
which is called `Isha' by them."
Bukhari:564 Narrated `Abdullah:"One night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in the `Isha' prayer and that is the one called Al-`Atma [??] by the 
people. After the completion of the prayer, he faced us and said, "Do you know the importance of this 
night? Nobody present on the surface of the earth tonight will be living after one hundred years from 
this night." (See Hadith No. 575).
Bukhari:565 Narrated Muhammad bin `Amr:We asked Jabir bin `Abdullah about the prayers of the Prophet (ﷺ) . He said, "He used to pray Zuhr prayer 
at midday, the `Asr when the sun was still hot, and the Maghrib after sunset (at its stated time). The 
`Isha was offered early if the people gathered, and used to be delayed if their number was less; and the 
morning prayer was offered when it was still dark. "
Bukhari:566 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once delayed the `Isha' prayer and that was during the days when Islam still had not 
spread. The Prophet (ﷺ) did not come out till `Umar informed him that the women and children had slept. 
Then he came out and said to the people of the mosque: "None amongst the dwellers of the earth has 
been waiting for it (`Isha prayer) except you."
Bukhari:567 Narrated Abu Musa:My companions, who came with me in the boat and I landed at a place called Baqi [??] Buthan [??] . 
The Prophet (ﷺ) was in Medina at that time. One of us used to go to the Prophet (ﷺ) by turns every night at 
the time of the `Isha prayer. Once I along with my companions went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was busy in 
some of his affairs, so the `Isha' prayer was delayed to the middle of the night He then came out and 
led the people (in prayer). After finishing from the prayer, he addressed the people present there 
saying, "Be patient! Don't go away. Have the glad tiding. It is from the blessing of Allah upon you 
that none amongst mankind has prayed at this time save you." Or said, "None except you has prayed 
at this time." Abu Musa added, 'So we returned happily after what we heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ."
Bukhari:568 Narrated Abu Barza:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked to sleep before the `Isha' prayer and to talk after it.
Bukhari:569 Narrated Ibn Shihab from `Urwa:`Aisha said, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer till `Umar reminded him by saying, "The 
prayer!" The women and children have slept. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came out and said, 'None amongst the 
dwellers of the earth has been waiting for it (the prayer) except you." `Urwa said, "Nowhere except in 
Medina the prayer used to be offered (in those days)." He further said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the 
`Isha' prayer in the period between the disappearance of the twilight and the end of the first third of 
the night."
Bukhari:570 Narrated Ibn Juraij from Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was busy (at the time of the `Isha'), so the prayer 
was delayed so much so that we slept and woke up and slept and woke up again. The Prophet (ﷺ) came 
out and said, 'None amongst the dwellers of the earth but you have been waiting for the prayer." Ibn 
`Umar did not find any harm in praying it earlier or in delaying it unless he was afraid that sleep might 
overwhelm him and he might miss the prayer, and sometimes he used to sleep before the `Isha' prayer. 
Ibn Juraij said, "I said to `Ata', 'I heard Ibn `Abbas saying: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' 
prayer to such an extent that the people slept and got up and slept again and got up again. Then `Umar 
bin Al-Khattab I, stood up and reminded the Prophet (ﷺ) I of the prayer.' `Ata' said, 'Ibn `Abbas said: The 
Prophet came out as if I was looking at him at this time, and water was trickling from his head and he 
was putting his hand on his head and then said, 'Hadn't I thought it hard for my followers, I would 
have ordered them to pray (`Isha' prayer) at this time.' I asked `Ata' for further information, how the 
Prophet had kept his hand on his head as he was told by Ibn `Abbas. `Ata' separated his fingers 
slightly and put their tips on the side of the head, brought the fingers downwards approximating them 
till the thumb touched the lobe of the ear at the side of the temple and the beard on the face. He neither 
slowed nor hurried in this action but he acted like that. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Hadn't I thought it hard for 
my followers I would have ordered them to pray at this time."
Bukhari:571 Narrated Ibn Juraij from Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was busy (at the time of the `Isha'), so the prayer 
was delayed so much so that we slept and woke up and slept and woke up again. The Prophet (ﷺ) came 
out and said, 'None amongst the dwellers of the earth but you have been waiting for the prayer." Ibn 
`Umar did not find any harm in praying it earlier or in delaying it unless he was afraid that sleep might 
overwhelm him and he might miss the prayer, and sometimes he used to sleep before the `Isha' prayer. 
Ibn Juraij said, "I said to `Ata', 'I heard Ibn `Abbas saying: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' 
prayer to such an extent that the people slept and got up and slept again and got up again. Then `Umar 
bin Al-Khattab I, stood up and reminded the Prophet (ﷺ) I of the prayer.' `Ata' said, 'Ibn `Abbas said: The 
Prophet came out as if I was looking at him at this time, and water was trickling from his head and he 
was putting his hand on his head and then said, 'Hadn't I thought it hard for my followers, I would 
have ordered them to pray (`Isha' prayer) at this time.' I asked `Ata' for further information, how the 
Prophet had kept his hand on his head as he was told by Ibn `Abbas. `Ata' separated his fingers 
slightly and put their tips on the side of the head, brought the fingers downwards approximating them 
till the thumb touched the lobe of the ear at the side of the temple and the beard on the face. He neither 
slowed nor hurried in this action but he acted like that. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Hadn't I thought it hard for 
my followers I would have ordered them to pray at this time."
Bukhari:572 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer till midnight and then he offered the prayer and said, "The 
people prayed and slept but you have been in prayer as long as you have been waiting for it (the 
prayer)." Anas added: As if I am looking now at the glitter of the ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) on that night.
Bukhari:573 Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a full moon night. He looked at the moon and said, "You will certainly 
see your Lord as you see this moon, and there will be no trouble in seeing Him. So if you can avoid 
missing (through sleep, business, etc.) a prayer before the rising of the sun (Fajr) and before its setting 
(`Asr) you must do so. He (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) then recited the following verse: 
And celebrate the praises Of Your Lord before The rising of the sun And before (its) setting." (50.39)
Bukhari:574 Narrated Abu Bakr bin Abi Musa:My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever prays the two cool prayers (`Asr and Fajr) will go to 
Paradise.' "
Bukhari:575 Narrated Anas:Zaid bin Thabit said, "We took the "Suhur" (the meal taken before dawn while fasting is observed) 
with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then stood up for the (morning) prayer." I asked him how long the interval 
between the two (Suhur and prayer) was. He replied, 'The interval between the two was just sufficient 
to recite fifty to Sixth 'Ayat."
Bukhari:576 Narrated Qatada:Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) and Zaid bin Thabit took the 'Suhur' together and after finishing 
the meal, the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and prayed (Fajr prayer)." I asked Anas, "How long was the interval 
between finishing their 'Suhur' and starting the prayer?" He replied, "The interval between the two 
was just sufficient to recite fifty 'Ayat." (Verses of the Qur'an).
Bukhari:577 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I used to take the "Suhur" meal with my family and hasten so as to catch the Fajr (morning prayer) 
with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:578 Narrated `Aisha:The believing women covered with their veiling sheets used to attend the Fajr prayer with Allah's 
Apostle, and after finishing the prayer they would return to their home and nobody could recognize 
them because of darkness.
Bukhari:579 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever could get one rak`a (of the Fajr prayer) before sunrise, he has got the 
(morning) prayer and whoever could get one rak`a of the `Asr prayer before sunset, he has got the 
(`Asr) prayer."
Bukhari:580 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever could get one rak`a of a prayer, (in its proper time) he has got the 
prayer."
Bukhari:581 Narrated `Umar:"The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade praying after the Fajr prayer till the sun rises and after the `Asr prayer till the 
sun sets."Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Some people told me the same narration (as above).
Bukhari:582 Narrated Hisham's father:Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Do not pray at the time of sunrise and at the time of sunset.' " 
Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the edge of the sun appears (above the horizon) delay the 
prayer till it becomes high, and if the edge of the sun disappears, delay the prayer till it sets 
(disappears completely).' "
Bukhari:583 Narrated Hisham's father:Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Do not pray at the time of sunrise and at the time of sunset.' " 
Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the edge of the sun appears (above the horizon) delay the 
prayer till it becomes high, and if the edge of the sun disappears, delay the prayer till it sets 
(disappears completely).' "
Bukhari:584 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of sales, two kinds of dresses, and two prayers. He forbade offering 
prayers after the Fajr prayer till the rising of the sun and after the `Asr prayer till its setting. He also 
forbade "Ishtimal-Assama [??] " and "al-Ihtiba" in one garment in such a way that one's private parts 
are exposed towards the sky. He also forbade the sales called "Munabadha" and "Mulamasa." (See 
Hadith No. 354 and 355 Vol. 3).
Bukhari:585 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should try to pray at sunrise or sunset."
Bukhari:586 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is no prayer after the morning prayer till the sun rises, and there 
is no prayer after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets."
Bukhari:587 Narrated Muawiya:You offer a prayer which I did not see being offered by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when we were in his company 
and he certainly had forbidden it (i.e. two rak`at after the `Asr prayer).
Bukhari:588 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the offering of two prayers: 
-1. after the morning prayer till the sunrises. 
-2. after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets.
Bukhari:589 Narrated Ibn `Umar:I pray as I saw my companions praying. I do not forbid praying at any time during the day or night 
except at sunset and sunrise.
Bukhari:590 Narrated `Aisha:By Allah, Who took away the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) never missed them (two rak`at) after the `Asr 
prayer till he met Allah and he did not meet Allah till it became heavy for him to pray while standing 
so he used to offer most of the prayers while sitting. (She meant the two rak`at after `Asr) He used to 
pray them in the house and never prayed them in the mosque lest it might be hard for his followers 
and he loved what was easy for them .
Bukhari:591 Narrated Hisham's father:`Aisha (addressing me) said, "O son of my sister! The Prophet (ﷺ) never missed two prostrations (i.e. 
rak`at) after the `Asr prayer in my house."
Bukhari:592 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never missed two rak`at before the Fajr prayer and after the `Asr prayer openly and 
secretly.
Bukhari:593 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) come to me after the `Asr prayer, he always prayed two rak`at.
Bukhari:594 Narrated Ibn Abu Malih [??]:I was with Buraida on a cloudy day and he said, "Offer the `Asr prayer earlier as the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
'Whoever leaves the `Asr prayer will have all his (good) deeds annulled." (See Hadith No. 527 and 
528)
Bukhari:595 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "One night we were traveling with the Prophet (ﷺ) and some people said, 'We wish that 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would take a rest along with us during the last hours of the night.' He said, 'I am afraid 
that you will sleep and miss the (Fajr) prayer.' Bilal said, 'I will make you get up.' So all slept and 
Bilal rested his back against his Rahila and he too was overwhelmed (by sleep) and slept. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
got up when the edge of the sun had risen and said, 'O Bilal! What about your statement?' He replied, 
'I have never slept such a sleep.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Allah captured your souls when He wished, and 
released them when He wished. O Bilal! Get up and pronounce the Adhan for the prayer.' The Prophet (ﷺ) 
performed ablution and when the sun came up and became bright, he stood up and prayed."
Bukhari:596 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the day of Al-Khandaq (the battle of trench.) `Umar bin Al-Khattab came cursing the disbelievers 
of Quraish after the sun had set and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I could not offer the `Asr prayer till the 
sun had set." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah! I, too, have not prayed." So we turned towards Buthan, and 
the Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution and we too performed ablution and offered the `Asr prayer after the 
sun had set, and then he offered the Maghrib prayer.
Bukhari:597 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone forgets a prayer he should pray that prayer when he remembers it. There 
is no expiation except to pray the same." Then he recited: "Establish prayer for My (i.e. Allah's) 
remembrance." (20.14).
Bukhari:598 Narrated Jabir:`Umar came cursing the disbelievers (of Quraish) on the day of Al-Khandaq (the battle of Trench) and 
said, "I could not offer the `Asr prayer till the sun had set. Then we went to Buthan and he offered the 
(`Asr) prayer after sunset and then he offered the Maghrib prayer.
Bukhari:599 Narrated Abu-l-Minhal:My father and I went to Abi Barza Al-Aslami and my father said to him, "Tell us how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
used to offer the compulsory congregational prayers." He said, "He used to pray the Zuhr prayer, 
which you call the first prayer, as the sun declined at noon, the `Asr at a time when one of US could 
go to his family at the farthest place in Medina while the sun was still hot. (The narrator forgot what 
Abu Barza had said about the Maghrib prayer), and the Prophet (ﷺ) preferred to pray the `Isha' late and 
disliked to sleep before it or talk after it. And he used to return after finishing the morning prayer at 
such a time when it was possible for one to recognize the person sitting by his side and he (the 
Prophet) used to recite 60 to 100 'Ayat' (verses) of the Qur'an in it."
Bukhari:600 Narrated Qurra bin Khalid:Once he waited for Al-Hasan and he did not show up till it was about the usual time for him to start 
his speech; then he came and apologized saying, "Our neighbors invited us." Then he added, 
"Narrated Anas, 'Once we waited for the Prophet (ﷺ) till it was midnight or about midnight. He came and 
led the prayer, and after finishing it, he addressed us and said, 'All the people prayed and then slept 
and you had been in prayer as long as you were waiting for it." Al-Hasan said, "The people are 
regarded as performing good deeds as long as they are waiting for doing good deeds." Al-Hasan's 
statement is a portion of Anas's [??] Hadith from the Prophet (ﷺ) .
