Bukhari:151 Narrated Anas:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy from us used to 
go behind him with a tumbler full of water.
Bukhari:152 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy used to carry a 
tumbler full of water (for cleaning the private parts) and a short spear (or stick).
Bukhari:153 Narrated Abu Qatada:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you drinks water, he should not breathe in the drinking 
utensil, and whenever anyone of you goes to a lavatory, he should neither touch his penis nor clean his 
private parts with his right hand."
Bukhari:154 Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you makes water he should not hold his penis or clean his 
private parts with his right hand. (And while drinking) one should not breathe in the drinking utensil ."
Bukhari:155 Narrated Abu Huraira:I followed the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was going out to answer the call of nature. He used not to look this 
way or that. So, when I approached near him he said to me, "Fetch for me some stones for ' cleaning 
the privates parts (or said something similar), and do not bring a bone or a piece of dung." So I 
brought the stones in the corner of my garment and placed them by his side and I then went away from 
him. When he finished (from answering the call of nature) he used, them .
Bukhari:156 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature and asked me to bring three stones. I found two 
stones and searched for the third but could not find it. So took a dried piece of dung and brought it to 
him. He took the two stones and threw away the dung and said, "This is a filthy thing."
Bukhari:157 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution by washing the body parts only once.
Bukhari:158 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution by washing the body parts twice.
Bukhari:159 Narrated Humran:(the slave of 'Uthman) I saw 'Uthman bin 'Affan asking for a tumbler 
     of water (and when it was brought) he poured water over his hands and 
     washed them thrice and then put his right hand in the water container 
     and rinsed his mouth, washed his nose by putting water in it and then 
     blowing it out. then he washed his face and forearms up to the 
     elbows thrice, passed his wet hands over his head and washed his feet 
     up to the ankles thrice. Then he said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said 'If 
     anyone performs ablution like that of mine and offers a two-rak'at 
     prayer during which he does not think of anything else (not related to
     the present prayer) then his past sins will be forgiven.' "
Bukhari:160 After 
     performing the ablution 'Uthman said, "I am going to tell you a Hadith
     which I would not have told you, had I not been compelled by a certain
     Holy Verse (the sub narrator 'Urwa said:This verse is: "Verily, those
     who conceal the clear signs and the guidance which we have sent 
     down...)" (2:159). I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'If a man performs 
     ablution perfectly and then offers the compulsory congregational 
     prayer, Allah will forgive his sins committed between that (prayer) 
     and the (next) prayer till he offers it.
Bukhari:161 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs ablution should clean his nose with water by putting the water 
in it and then blowing it out, and whoever cleans his private parts with stones should do it with odd 
number of stones."
Bukhari:162 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you performs ablution he should put water in his nose and then 
blow it out and whoever cleans his private parts with stones should do so with odd numbers. And 
whoever wakes up from his sleep should wash his hands before putting them in the water for ablution, 
because nobody knows where his hands were during sleep."
Bukhari:163 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) remained behind us on a journey. He joined us while we were performing ablution for the 
`Asr prayer which was overdue and we were just passing wet hands over our feet (not washing them 
thoroughly) so he addressed us in a loud voice saying twice , "Save your heels from the fire."
Bukhari:164 Narrated Humran:(the freed slave of `Uthman bin `Affan) I saw `Uthman bin `Affan asking (for a tumbler of water) to 
perform ablution (and when it was brought) he poured water from it over his hands and washed them 
thrice and then put his right hand in the water container and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by 
putting water in it and then blowing it out. Then he washed his face thrice and (then) forearms up to 
the elbows thrice, then passed his wet hands over his head and then washed each foot thrice. After that 
`Uthman said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing ablution like this of mine, and he said, 'If anyone 
performs ablution like that of mine and offers a two-rak`at prayer during which he does not think of 
anything else (not related to the present prayer) then his past sins will be forgiven. '
Bukhari:165 Narrated Muhammad Ibn Ziyad:I heard Abu Huraira saying as he passed by us while the people were performing ablution from a 
utensil containing water, "Perform ablution perfectly and thoroughly for Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) 
said, 'Save your heels from the Hell-fire.' "
Bukhari:166 Narrated `Ubaid Ibn Juraij:I asked `Abdullah bin `Umar, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! I saw you doing four things which I never 
saw being done by anyone of you companions?" `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "What are those, O Ibn 
Juraij?" I said, "I never saw you touching any corner of the Ka`ba except these (two) facing south 
(Yemen) and I saw you wearing shoes made of tanned leather and dyeing your hair with Hinna (a kind 
of red dye). I also noticed that whenever you were in Mecca, the people assume Ihram on seeing the 
new moon crescent (1st of Dhul-Hijja) while you did not assume the Ihlal (Ihram) -(Ihram is also 
called Ihlal which means 'Loud calling' because a Muhrim has to recite Talbiya aloud when assuming 
the state of Ihram) - till the 8th of Dhul-Hijja (Day of Tarwiya). `Abdullah replied, "Regarding the 
corners of Ka`ba, I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching except those facing south (Yemen) and 
regarding the tanned leather shoes, no doubt I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wearing non-hairy shoes and he 
used to perform ablution while wearing the shoes (i.e. wash his feet and then put on the shoes). So I 
love to wear similar shoes. And about the dyeing of hair with Hinna; no doubt I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
dyeing his hair with it and that is why I like to dye (my hair with it). Regarding Ihlal, I did not see 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assuming Ihlal till he set out for Hajj (on the 8th of Dhul-Hijja).
Bukhari:167 Narrated Um-`Atiya:That the Prophet (ﷺ) at the time of washing his deceased daughter had said to them, "Start from the right 
side beginning with those parts which are washed in ablution."
Bukhari:168 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like to start from the right side on wearing shoes, combing his hair and cleaning 
or washing himself and on doing anything else.
Bukhari:169 Narrated Anas bin Malik:saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when the `Asr prayer was due and the people searched for water to perform 
ablution but they could not find it. Later on (a pot full of) water for ablution was brought to Allah's 
Apostle . He put his hand in that pot and ordered the people to perform ablution from it. I saw the 
water springing out from underneath his fingers till all of them performed the ablution (it was one of 
the miracles of the Prophet).
Bukhari:170 Narrated Ibn Seereen:I said to `Abida, "I have some of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) which I got from Anas or from his family." 
`Abida replied. "No doubt if I had a single hair of that it would have been dearer to me than the whole 
world and whatever is in it."
Bukhari:171 Narrated Anas:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got his head shaved, Abu- Talha was the first to take some of his hair.
Bukhari:172 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a dog drinks from the utensil of anyone of you it is essential to wash it seven 
times."
Bukhari:173 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man saw a dog eating mud from (the severity of) 
     thirst. So, that man took a shoe (and filled it) with water and kept 
     on pouring the water for the dog till it quenched its thirst. So Allah
     approved of his deed and made him to enter Paradise."
Bukhari:174 And narrated 
     Hamza bin 'Abdullah:My father said. "During the lifetime of Allah's 
     Apostle, the dogs used to urinate, and pass through the mosques (come 
     and go), nevertheless they never used to sprinkle water on it (urine 
     of the dog.)"
Bukhari:175 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:I asked the Prophet (about the hunting dogs) and he replied, "If you let loose (with Allah's name) your 
tamed dog after a game and it hunts it, you may eat it, but if the dog eats of (that game) then do not eat 
it because the dog has hunted it for itself." I further said, "Sometimes I send my dog for hunting and 
find another dog with it. He said, "Do not eat the game for you have mentioned Allah's name only on 
sending your dog and not the other dog."
Bukhari:176 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A person is considered in prayer as long as he is waiting for the prayer in the 
mosque as long as he does not do Hadath." A non-Arab man asked, "O Abu Huraira! What is 
Hadath?" I replied, "It is the passing of wind (from the anus) (that is one of the types of Hadath).
Bukhari:177 Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:My uncle said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One should not leave his prayer unless he hears sound or smells 
something."
Bukhari:178 Narrated `Ali:I used to get emotional urethral discharges frequently and felt shy to ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. So I 
requested Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad to ask (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) about it. Al-Miqdad asked him and he 
replied, "One has to perform ablution (after it)."
Bukhari:179 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid:I asked `Uthman bin `Affan about a person who engaged in intercourse but did no discharge. `Uthman 
replied, "He should perform ablution like the one for an ordinary prayer but he must wash his penis." 
`Uthman added, "I heard it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." I asked `Ali Az-Zubair, Talha and Ubai bin Ka`b 
about it and they, too, gave the same reply. (This order was canceled later on and taking a bath 
became necessary for such cases).
Bukhari:180 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for a Ansari man who came with water dropping from his head. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Perhaps we have forced you to hurry up, haven't we?" The Ansari replied, "Yes." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
further said, "If you are forced to hurry up (during intercourse) or you do not discharge then ablution 
is due on you (This order was canceled later on, i.e. one has to take a bath).
Bukhari:181 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:"When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) departed from `Arafat, he turned towards a mountain pass where he answered 
the call of nature. (After he had finished) I poured water and he performed ablution and then I said to 
him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will you offer the prayer?" He replied, "The Musalla (place of the prayer) is 
ahead of you (in Al-Muzdalifa).
Bukhari:182 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:I was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of the journeys and he went out to answer the call of 
nature (and after he finished) I poured water and he performed ablution; he washed his face, forearms 
and passed his wet hand over his head and over the two Khuff (socks made from thick fabric or 
leather).
Bukhari:183 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:That he stayed overnight in the house of Maimuna the wife of the Prophet, his aunt. He added : I lay 
on the bed (cushion transversally) while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his wife lay in the lengthwise direction of 
the cushion. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept till the middle of the night, either a bit before or a bit after it and 
then woke up, rubbing the traces of sleep off his face with his hands. He then, recited the last ten 
verses of Sura Al-`Imran, got up and went to a hanging water-skin. He then Performed the ablution 
from it and it was a perfect ablution, and then stood up to offer the prayer. I, too, got up and did as the 
Prophet had done. Then I went and stood by his side. He placed his right hand on my head and caught 
my right ear and twisted it. He prayed two rak`at then two rak`at and two rak`at and then two rak`at 
and then two rak`at and then two rak`at (separately six times), and finally one rak`a (the witr). Then he 
lay down again in the bed till the Mu'adh-dhin came to him where upon the Prophet (ﷺ) got up, offered a 
two light rak`at prayer and went out and led the Fajr prayer.
Bukhari:184 Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:I came to `Aisha the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) during the solar eclipse. The people were standing and 
offering the prayer and she was also praying. I asked her, "What is wrong with the people?" She 
beckoned with her hand towards the sky and said, "Subhan Allah." I asked her, "Is there a sign?" She 
pointed out, "Yes." So I, too, stood for the prayer till I fell unconscious and later on I poured water on 
my head. After the prayer, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praised and glorified Allah and said, "Just now I have seen 
something which I never saw before at this place of mine, including Paradise and Hell. I have been 
inspired (and have understood) that you will be put to trials in your graves and these trials will be like 
the trials of Ad-Dajjal, or nearly like it (the sub narrator is not sure of what Asma' said). Angels will 
come to every one of you and ask, 'What do you know about this man?' A believer will reply, 'He is 
Muhammad, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and he came to us with self-evident truth and guidance. So we accepted 
his teaching, believed and followed him.' Then the angels will say to him to sleep in peace as they 
have come to know that he was a believer. On the other hand a hypocrite or a doubtful person will 
reply, 'I do not know but heard the people saying something and so I said the same.' "
Bukhari:185 Narrated Yahya Al-Mazini:A person asked `Abdullah bin Zaid who was the grandfather of `Amr bin Yahya, "Can you show me 
how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to perform ablution?" `Abdullah bin Zaid replied in the affirmative and 
asked for water. He poured it on his hands and washed them twice, then he rinsed his mouth thrice and 
washed his nose with water thrice by putting water in it and blowing it out. He washed his face thrice 
and after that he washed his forearms up to the elbows twice and then passed his wet hands over his 
head from its front to its back and vice versa (beginning from the front and taking them to the back of 
his head up to the nape of the neck and then brought them to the front again from where he had 
started) and washed his feet (up to the ankles).
Bukhari:186 Narrated `Amr:My father saw `Amr bin Abi Hasan asking `Abdullah bin Zaid about the ablution of the Prophet. 
`Abdullah bin Zaid asked for earthenware pot containing water and in front of them performed 
ablution like that of the Prophet (ﷺ) . He poured water from the pot over his hand and washed his hands 
thrice and then he put his hands in the pot and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water 
in it and then blowing it out with three handfuls of water. Again he put his hand in the water and 
washed his face thrice and washed his forearms up to the elbows twice; and then put his hands in the 
water and then passed them over his head by bringing them to the front and then to the rear of the 
head once, and then he washed his feet up to the ankles.
Bukhari:187 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us at noon and water for ablution was brought to him. After he had performed 
ablution, the remaining water was taken by the people and they started smearing their bodies with it 
(as a blessed thing). The Prophet (ﷺ) offered two rak`at of the Zuhr prayer and then two rak`at of the `Asr 
prayer while a short spear (or stick) was there (as a Sutra) in front of him.
Bukhari:188 Abu Musa said:The 
Prophet asked for a tumbler containing water and washed both his hands and face in it and then threw 
a mouthful of water in the tumbler and said to both of us (Abu Musa and Bilal), "Drink from the 
tumbler and pour some of its water on your faces and chests."
Bukhari:189 Narrated Ibn Shihab:Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi` who was the person on whose face the Prophet (ﷺ) had ejected a mouthful of water 
from his family's well while he was a boy, and `Urwa (on the authority of Al-Miswar and others) who 
testified each other, said, "Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) , performed ablution, his companions were nearly 
fighting for the remains of the water."
Bukhari:190 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:My aunt took me to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This son of my sister has got a disease 
in his legs." So he passed his hands on my head and prayed for Allah's blessings for me; then he 
performed ablution and I drank from the remaining water. I stood behind him and saw the seal of 
Prophethood between his shoulders, and it was like the "Zir-al-Hijla" (means the button of a small 
tent, but some said 'egg of a partridge.' etc.)
Bukhari:191 Narrated `Amr bin Yahya:(on the authority of his father) `Abdullah bin Zaid poured water on his hands from a utensil containing 
water and washed them and then with one handful of water he rinsed his mouth and cleaned his nose 
by putting water in it and then blowing it out. He repeated it thrice. He, then, washed his hands and 
forearms up to the elbows twice and passed wet hands over his head, both forwards and backwards, 
and washed his feet up to the ankles and said, "This is the ablution of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:192 Narrated `Amr bin Yahya:My father said, "I saw `Amr bin Abi Hasan asking `Abdullah bin Zaid about the ablution of the 
Prophet. `Abdullah bin Zaid asked for an earthenware pot containing water and performed ablution in 
front of them. He poured water over his hands and washed them thrice. Then he put his (right) hand in 
the pot and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out thrice 
with three handfuls of water Again he put his hand in the water and washed his face thrice. After that 
he put his hand in the pot and washed his forearms up to the elbows twice and then again put his hand 
in the water and passed wet hands over his head by bringing them to the front and then to the back and 
once more he put his hand in the pot and washed his feet (up to the ankles.)"Narrated Wuhaib:That he (the Prophet (ﷺ) in narration 191 above) had passed his wet hands on the head once only.
Bukhari:193 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:"During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) men and women used to perform ablution together."
Bukhari:194 Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to visit me while I was sick and unconscious. He performed ablution and 
sprinkled the remaining water on me and I became conscious and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! To whom 
will my inheritance go as I have neither ascendants nor descendants?" Then the Divine verses 
regarding Fara'id (inheritance) were revealed.
Bukhari:195 Narrated Anas:It was the time for prayer, and those whose houses were near got up and went to their people (to 
perform ablution), and there remained some people (sitting). Then a painted stove pot (Mikhdab) 
containing water was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s The pot was small, not broad enough for one to 
spread one's hand in; yet all the people performed ablution. (The sub narrator said, "We asked Anas, 
'How many persons were you?' Anas replied 'We were eighty or more"). (It was one of the miracles of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)).
Bukhari:196 Narrated Abu Musa:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a tumbler containing water. He washed his hands and face in it and also 
threw a mouthful of water in it.
Bukhari:197 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and we brought out water for him in a brass pot. He performed 
ablution thus: He washed his face thrice, and his forearms to the elbows twice, then passed his wet 
hands lightly over the head from front to rear and brought them to front again and washed his feet (up 
to the ankles).
Bukhari:198 Narrated `Aisha:When the ailment of the Prophet (ﷺ) became aggravated and his disease became severe, he asked his 
wives to permit him to be nursed (treated) in my house. So they gave him the permission. Then the 
Prophet came (to my house) with the support of two men, and his legs were dragging on the ground, 
between `Abbas, and another man." 'Ubaidullah (the sub narrator) said, "I informed `Abdullah bin 
`Abbas of what `Aisha said. Ibn `Abbas said: 'Do you know who was the other man?' I replied in the 
negative. Ibn `Abbas said, 'He was `Ali (bin Abi Talib)." `Aisha further said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) came 
to my house and his sickness became aggravated he ordered us to pour seven skins full of water on 
him, so that he might give some advice to the people. So he was seated in a Mikhdab (brass tub) 
belonging to Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet. Then, all of us started pouring water on him from the 
water skins till he beckoned to us to stop and that we have done (what he wanted us to do). After that 
he went out to the people."
Bukhari:199 Narrated `Amr bin Yahya:(on the authority of his father) My uncle used to perform ablution extravagantly and once he asked 
`Abdullah bin Zaid to tell him how he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) performing ablution. He asked for an 
earthenware pot containing water, and poured water from it on his hands and washed them thrice, and 
then put his hand in the earthenware pot and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in 
it and then blowing it out thrice with one handful of water; he again put his hand in the water and 
took a handful of water and washed his face thrice, then washed his hands up to the elbows twice, and 
took water with his hand, and passed it over his head from front to back and then from back to front, 
and then washed his feet (up to the ankles) and said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing ablution in that 
way."
Bukhari:200 Narrated Thabit:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water and a tumbler with a broad base and no so deep, containing a 
small quantity of water, was brought to him whereby he put his fingers in it." Anas further said, ' 
noticed the water springing out from amongst his fingers." Anas added, ' estimated that the people 
who performed ablution with it numbered between seventy to eighty."
Bukhari:201 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath with one Sa` up to five Mudds (1 Sa` = [??] Mudds) of water and 
used to perform ablution with one Mudd of water.
Bukhari:202 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick 
fabric or leather)." `Abdullah bin `Umar asked `Umar about it. `Umar replied in the affirmative and 
added, "Whenever Sa`d narrates a Hadith from the Prophet, there is no need to ask anyone else about 
it."
Bukhari:203 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature and I followed him with a tumbler 
containing water, and when he finished, I poured water and he performed ablution and passed wet 
hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather).
Bukhari:204 Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya Ad-Damri:My father said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) passing wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or 
leather)."
Bukhari:205 Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr:My father said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) passing wet hands over his turban and Khuffs (socks made from 
thick fabric or leather).
Bukhari:206 Narrated `Urwa bin Al-Mughira:My father said, "Once I was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and I dashed to take off his 
Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather). He ordered me to leave them as he had put them 
after performing ablution. So he passed wet hands over them.
Bukhari:207 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ate a piece of cooked mutton from the shoulder region and prayed without repeating 
ablution.
Bukhari:208 Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya:My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taking a piece of (cooked) mutton from the shoulder region and 
then he was called for prayer. He put his knife down and prayed without repeating ablution."
Bukhari:209 Narrated Suwaid bin Al-Nu`man:In the year of the conquest of Khaibar I went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till we reached Sahba, a place near 
Khaibar, where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and asked for food. Nothing but saweeq  
was brought. He ordered it to be moistened with water. He and all of us ate it and the Prophet (ﷺ) got up 
for the evening prayer (Maghrib prayer), rinsed his mouth with water and we did the same, and he 
then prayed without repeating the ablution.
Bukhari:210 Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) ate (a piece of) mutton from the shoulder region and then prayed without repeating the 
ablution.
Bukhari:211 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank milk, rinsed his mouth and said, "It has fat."
Bukhari:212 Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you feels drowsy while praying he should go to bed (sleep) till his 
slumber is over because in praying while drowsy one does not know whether one is asking for 
forgiveness or for a bad thing for oneself."
Bukhari:213 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you feels drowsy while praying, he should sleep till he understands 
what he is saying (reciting).
Bukhari:214 Narrated `Amr bin `Amir:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform ablution for every prayer." I asked Anas, "What did you used to 
do?' Anas replied, "We used to pray with the same ablution until we break it with Hadath."
Bukhari:215 Narrated Suwaid bin Nu`man:In the year of the conquest of Khaibar I went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till we reached As-Sahba' where 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led the `Asr prayer and asked for the food. Nothing but saweeq was brought and 
we ate it and drank (water). The Prophet (ﷺ) got up for the (Maghrib) Prayer, rinsed his mouth with water 
and then led the prayer without repeating the ablution.
Bukhari:216 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet, while passing through one of the graveyards of Medina or Mecca heard the voices 
of two persons who were being tortured in their graves. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "These two persons are 
being tortured not for a major sin (to avoid)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then added, "Yes! (they are being tortured 
for a major sin). Indeed, one of them never saved himself from being soiled with his urine while the 
other used to go about with calumnies (to make enmity between friends). The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for a 
green leaf of a date-palm tree, broke it into two pieces and put one on each grave. On being asked why 
he had done so, he replied, "I hope that their torture might be lessened, till these get dried."
Bukhari:217 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I used to bring water with which he used to 
clean his private parts.
Bukhari:218 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once passed by two graves and said, "These two persons are being tortured not for a 
major sin (to avoid). One of them never saved himself from being soiled with his urine, while the 
other used to go about with calumnies (to make enmity between friends)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then took a 
green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into (pieces) and fixed one on each grave. They said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Why have you done so?" He replied, "I hope that their punishment might be lessened till 
these (the pieces of the leaf) become dry." (See the footnote of Hadith 215).
Bukhari:219 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a Bedouin making water in the mosque and told the people not to disturb him. When 
he finished, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for some water and poured it over (the urine).
Bukhari:220 Narrated Abu Huraira:A Bedouin stood up and started making water in the mosque. The people caught him but the Prophet (ﷺ) 
ordered them to leave him and to pour a bucket or a tumbler of water over the place where he had 
passed the urine. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "You have been sent to make things easy and not to make 
them difficult."
Bukhari:221 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said as above (219).
Bukhari:222 Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of faithful believers) A child was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and it urinated on the 
garment of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water and poured it over the soiled place.
Bukhari:223 Narrated Um Qais bint Mihsin:I brought my young son, who had not started eating (ordinary food) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who took him 
and made him sit in his lap. The child urinated on the garment of the Prophet, so he asked for water 
and poured it over the soiled (area) and did not wash it.
Bukhari:224 Narrated Hudhaifa:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the dumps of some people and passed urine while standing. He then asked 
for water and so I brought it to him and he performed ablution.
Bukhari:225 Narrated Hudhaifa':The Prophet (ﷺ) and I walked till we reached the dumps of some people. He stood, as any one of you 
stands, behind a wall and urinated. I went away, but he beckoned me to come. So I approached him 
and stood near his back till he finished.
Bukhari:226 Narrated Abu Wail:Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari used to lay great stress on the question of urination and he used to say, "If 
anyone from Bani Israel happened to soil his clothes with urine, he used to cut that portion away." 
Hearing that, Hudhaifa said to Abu Wail, "I wish he (Abu Musa) didn't (lay great stress on that 
matter)." Hudhaifa added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to the dumps of some people and urinated while 
standing."
Bukhari:227 Narrated Asma':A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "If anyone of us gets menses in her clothes then what should 
she do?" He replied, "She should (take hold of the soiled place), rub it and put it in the water and rub it 
in order to remove the traces of blood and then pour water over it. Then she can pray in it."
Bukhari:228 Narrated `Aisha:Fatima bint Abi Hubaish came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I get persistent bleeding 
from the uterus and do not become clean. Shall I give up my prayers?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "No, 
because it is from a blood vessel and not the menses. So when your real menses begins give up your 
prayers and when it has finished wash off the blood (take a bath) and offer your prayers." Hisham (the 
sub narrator) narrated that his father had also said, (the Prophet (ﷺ) told her): "Perform ablution for every 
prayer till the time of the next period comes."
Bukhari:229 Narrated `Aisha:I used to wash the traces of Janaba (semen) from the clothes of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to go for 
prayers while traces of water were still on it (water spots were still visible).
Bukhari:230 Narrated Sulaiman bin Yasar:I asked `Aisha about the clothes soiled with semen. She replied, "I used to wash it off the clothes of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he would go for the prayer while water spots were still visible. "
Bukhari:231 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:I heard Sulaiman bin Yasar talking about the clothes soiled with semen. He said that `Aisha had said, 
"I used to wash it off the clothes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he would go for the prayers while water spots 
were still visible on them.
Bukhari:232 Narrated `Aishah:I used 
to wash the semen off the clothes of the
Prophet (ﷺ) and even then I used to notice
one or more spots on them.
Bukhari:233 Narrated Abu Qilaba:Anas said, "Some people of `Ukl or `Uraina tribe came to Medina and its climate did not suit them. So 
the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to go to the herd of (Milch) camels and to drink their milk and urine (as a 
medicine). So they went as directed and after they became healthy, they killed the shepherd of the 
Prophet and drove away all the camels. The news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) early in the morning and he 
sent (men) in their pursuit and they were captured and brought at noon. He then ordered to cut their 
hands and feet (and it was done), and their eyes were branded with heated pieces of iron, They were 
put in 'Al-Harra' and when they asked for water, no water was given to them." Abu Qilaba said, 
"Those people committed theft and murder, became infidels after embracing Islam and fought against 
Allah and His Apostle ."
Bukhari:234 Narrated Anas:Prior to the construction of the mosque, the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the prayers at sheep-folds.
Bukhari:235 Narrated Maimuna:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked regarding ghee (cooking butter) in which a mouse had fallen. He said, 
"Take out the mouse and throw away the ghee around it and use the rest."
Bukhari:236 Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked regarding ghee in which a mouse had fallen. He said, "Take out the mouse and 
throw away the ghee around it (and use the rest.)"
Bukhari:237 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A wound which a Muslim receives in Allah's cause will appear on the Day of 
Resurrection as it was at the time of infliction; blood will be flowing from the wound and its color will 
be that of the blood but will smell like musk."
Bukhari:238 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (people to come in the world) but (will be) the 
foremost (on the Day of Resurrection)."
Bukhari:239 The same narrator said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said:"You should not pass urine in stagnant water which is not flowing then (you may need to) wash in it."
Bukhari:240 Narrated `Abdullah:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was prostrating (as stated below).Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was offering prayers at the Ka`ba. Abu Jahl was sitting with some of his 
companions. One of them said to the others, "Who amongst you will bring the Abdominal contents 
(intestines, etc.) of a camel of Bani so and so and put it on the back of Muhammad, when he 
prostrates?" The most unfortunate of them got up and brought it. He waited till the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated 
and then placed it on his back between his shoulders. I was watching but could not do any thing. I 
wish I had some people with me to hold out against them. They started laughing and falling on one 
another. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in prostration and he did not lift his head up till Fatima (Prophet's 
daughter) came and threw that (camel's Abdominal contents) away from his back. He raised his head 
and said thrice, "O Allah! Punish Quraish." So it was hard for Abu Jahl and his companions when the 
Prophet invoked Allah against them as they had a conviction that the prayers and invocations were 
accepted in this city (Mecca). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Punish Abu Jahl, `Utba bin Rabi`a, Shaiba 
bin Rabi`a, Al-Walid bin `Utba, Umaiya bin Khalaf, and `Uqba bin Al Mu'it [??] (and he mentioned 
the seventh whose name I cannot recall). By Allah in Whose Hands my life is, I saw the dead bodies 
of those persons who were counted by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the Qalib (one of the wells) of Badr.
Bukhari:241 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once spat in his clothes.
Bukhari:242 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "All drinks that produce intoxication are Haram (forbidden to drink).
Bukhari:243 Narrated Abu Hazim:Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi, was asked by the people, "With what was the wound of the Prophet (ﷺ) treated? 
Sahl replied, "None remains among the people living who knows that better than I. `Ali [??] used to 
bring water in his shield and Fatima used to wash the blood off his face. Then straw mat was burnt 
and the wound was filled with it."
Bukhari:244 Narrated Abu Burda:My father said, "I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and saw him carrying a Siwak in his hand and cleansing his 
teeth, saying, 'U' U'," as if he was retching while the Siwak was in his mouth."
Bukhari:245 Narrated Hudhaifa:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) got up at night, he used to clean his mouth with Siwak.
Bukhari:246 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I dreamt that I was cleaning my teeth with a Siwak and two persons came to me. One of them was older than the other and I gave the Siwak to the younger. I was told that I should give it to the older and so I did."
Bukhari:247 Narrated Al-Bara 'bin `Azib:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Whenever you go to bed perform ablution like that for the prayer, lie or your 
right side and say, "Allahumma aslamtu wajhi ilaika, wa fauwadtu `Amri ilaika, wa alja'tu Zahri ilaika 
raghbatan wa rahbatan ilaika. La Malja'a wa la manja minka illa ilaika. Allahumma amantu 
bikitabika-l-ladhi anzalta wa bina-biyika-l ladhi arsalta" (O Allah! I surrender to You and entrust all 
my affairs to You and depend upon You for Your Blessings both with hope and fear of You. There is 
no fleeing from You, and there is no place of protection and safety except with You O Allah! I believe 
in Your Book (the Qur'an) which You have revealed and in Your Prophet (Muhammad) whom You 
have sent). Then if you die on that very night, you will die with faith (i.e. or the religion of Islam). Let 
the aforesaid words be your last utterance (before sleep)." I repeated it before the Prophet (ﷺ) and when I 
reached "Allahumma amantu bikitabika-l-ladhi anzalta (O Allah I believe in Your Book which You 
have revealed)." I said, "Wa-rasulika (and your Apostle)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, (but say): 
'Wanabiyika-l-ladhi arsalta (Your Prophet whom You have sent), instead."
Bukhari:248 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) took a bath after Janaba he started by washing his hands and then performed 
ablution like that for the prayer. After that he would put his fingers in water and move the roots of his 
hair with them, and then pour three handfuls of water over his head and then pour water all over his 
body.
Bukhari:249 Narrated Maimuna:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed ablution like that for the prayer but did not wash 
his feet. He washed off the discharge from his private parts and then poured water over his body. He 
withdrew his feet from that place (the place where he took the bath) and then washed them. And that 
was his way of taking the bath of Janaba.
Bukhari:250 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot called 'Faraq'.
Bukhari:251 Narrated Abu Salama:`Aisha's brother and I went to `Aisha and he asked her about the bath of the Prophet. She brought a 
pot containing about a Sa` of water and took a bath and poured it over her head and at that time there 
was a screen between her and us.
Bukhari:252 Narrated Abu Ja`far:While I and my father were with Jabir bin `Abdullah, some people asked him about taking a bath. He 
replied, "A Sa` of water is sufficient for you." A man said, "A Sa` is not sufficient for me." Jabir said, 
"A Sa` was sufficient for one who had more hair than you and was better than you (meaning the 
Prophet)." And then Jabir (put on) his garment and led the prayer.
Bukhari:253 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) and Maimuna used to take a bath from a single pot.
Bukhari:254 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "As for me, I pour water three times on my head." And he pointed with both his 
hands.
Bukhari:255 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pour water three times on his head.
Bukhari:256 Narrated Abu Ja`far:Jabir bin `Abdullah said to me, "Your cousin (Hasan bin Muhammad bin Al-Hanafiya) came to me 
and asked about the bath of Janaba. I replied, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) uses to take three handfuls of water, pour 
them on his head and then pour more water over his body.' Al-Hasan said to me, 'I am a hairy man.' I 
replied, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) had more hair than you'. "
Bukhari:257 Narrated Maimuna:I placed water for the bath of the Prophet. He washed his hands twice or thrice and then poured water 
on his left hand and washed his private parts. He rubbed his hands over the earth (and cleaned them), 
rinsed his mouth, washed his nose by putting water in it and blowing it out, washed his face and both 
forearms and then poured water over his body. Then he withdrew from that place and washed his feet.
Bukhari:258 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) took the bath of Janaba (sexual relation or wet dream) he asked for the Hilab or 
some other scent. He used to take it in his hand, rub it first over the right side of his head and then 
over the left and then rub the middle of his head with both hands.
Bukhari:259 Narrated Maimuna:I placed water for the bath of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he poured water with his right hand on his left and 
washed them. Then he washed his private parts and rubbed his hands on the ground, washed them 
with water, rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and blowing it out, washed his 
face and poured water on his head. He withdrew from that place and washed his feet. A piece of cloth 
(towel) was given to him but he did not use it.
Bukhari:260 Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) took the bath of Janaba. (sexual relation or wet dream). He first cleaned his private parts 
with his hand, and then rubbed it (that hand) on the wall (earth) and washed it. Then he performed 
ablution like that for the prayer, and after the bath he washed his feet.
Bukhari:261 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot of water and our hands used to go in the pot 
after each other in turn.
Bukhari:262 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took a bath of Janaba, he washed his hands first.
Bukhari:263 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot of water after Janaba.
Bukhari:264 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) and one of his wives used to take a bath from a single pot of water. (Shu`ba added to 
Anas' Statement "After the Janaba").
Bukhari:265 Narrated Maimuna:I placed water for the bath of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he poured water over his hands and washed them 
twice or thrice; then he poured water with his right hand over his left and washed his private parts 
(with his left hand). He rubbed his hand over the earth and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by 
putting water in it and blowing it out. After that he washed his face, both fore arms and head thrice 
and then poured water over his body. He withdrew from that place and washed his feet.
Bukhari:266 Narrated Maimuna bint Al-Harith:I placed water for the bath of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and put a screen. He poured water over his hands, and 
washed them once or twice. (The sub-narrator added that he did not remember if she had said thrice or 
not). Then he poured water with his right hand over his left one and washed his private parts. He 
rubbed his hand over the earth or the wall and washed it. He rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by 
putting water in it and blowing it out. He washed his face, forearms and head. He poured water over 
his body and then withdrew from that place and washed his feet. I presented him a piece of cloth 
(towel) and he pointed with his hand (that he does not want it) and did not take it.
Bukhari:267 Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Muntathir:on the authority of his father that he had asked `Aisha (about the Hadith of Ibn `Umar). She said, 
"May Allah be Merciful to Abu `Abdur-Rahman. I used to put scent on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he used to 
go round his wives, and in the morning he assumed the Ihram, and the fragrance of scent was still 
coming out from his body."
Bukhari:268 Narrated Qatada:Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to visit all his wives in a round, during the day and night and 
they were eleven in number." I asked Anas, "Had the Prophet (ﷺ) the strength for it?" Anas replied, "We 
used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) was given the strength of thirty (men)." And Sa`id said on the authority of 
Qatada that Anas had told him about nine wives only (not eleven).
Bukhari:269 Narrated `Ali:I used to get emotional urethral discharge frequently. Being the son-in-law of the Prophet (ﷺ) I requested 
a man to ask him about it. So the man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about it. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Perform 
ablution after washing your organ (penis)."
Bukhari:270 Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Muntathir:on the authority of his father that he had asked `Aisha about the saying of Ibn `Umar (i.e. he did not 
like to be a Muhrim while the smell of scent was still coming from his body). `Aisha said, "I scented 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he went round (had sexual intercourse with) all his wives, and in the morning he 
was Muhrim (after taking a bath)."
Bukhari:271 Narrated `Aisha:It is as if I am just looking at the glitter of scent in the parting of the Prophet's head hair while he was 
a Muhrim.
Bukhari:272 Narrated Hisham bin `Urwa:(on the authority of his father) `Aisha said, "Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took the bath of Janaba, he 
cleaned his hands and performed ablution like that for prayer and then took a bath and rubbed his hair, 
till he felt that the whole skin of the head had become wet, then he would pour water thrice and wash 
the rest of the body." `Aisha further said, "I and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to take a bath from a single 
water container, from which we took water simultaneously."
Bukhari:273 Narrated Hisham bin `Urwa:(on the authority of his father) `Aisha said, "Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took the bath of Janaba, he 
cleaned his hands and performed ablution like that for prayer and then took a bath and rubbed his hair, 
till he felt that the whole skin of the head had become wet, then he would pour water thrice and wash 
the rest of the body." `Aisha further said, "I and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to take a bath from a single 
water container, from which we took water simultaneously."
Bukhari:274 Narrated Maimuna:Water was placed for the ablution of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after Janaba. He poured water with his right hand 
over his left twice or thrice and then washed his private parts and rubbed his hand on the earth or on a 
wall twice or thrice and then rinsed his mouth, washed his nose by putting water in it and then 
blowing it out and then washed his face and forearms and poured water over his head and washed his 
body. Then he shifted from that place and washed his feet. I brought a piece of cloth, but he did not 
take it and removed the traces of water from his body with his hand."
Bukhari:275 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once the call (Iqama) for the prayer was announced and the rows were straightened. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
came out; and when he stood up at his Musalla, he remembered that he was Junub. Then he ordered us 
to stay at our places and went to take a bath and then returned with water dropping from his head. He 
said, "Allahu-Akbar", and we all offered the prayer with him.
Bukhari:276 Narrated Maimuna:I placed water for the bath of the Prophet (ﷺ) and screened him with a garment. He poured water over his 
hands and washed them. After that he poured water with his right hand over his left and washed his 
private parts, rubbed his hands with earth and washed them, rinsed his mouth, washed his nose by 
putting water in it and then blowing it out and then washed his face and forearms. He poured water 
over his head and body. He then shifted from that place and washed his feet. I gave him a piece of 
cloth but he did not take it and came out removing the water (from his body) with both his hands.
Bukhari:277 Narrated Aisha:Whenever any one of us was Junub, she poured water over her head thrice with both her hands and 
then rubbed the right side of her head with one hand and rubbed the left side of the head with the other 
hand.
Bukhari:278 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The (people of) Bani Israel used to take bath naked (all together) looking at each 
other. The Prophet (ﷺ) Moses used to take a bath alone. They said, 'By Allah! Nothing prevents Moses 
from taking a bath with us except that he has a scrotal hernia.' So once Moses went out to take a bath 
and put his clothes over a stone and then that stone ran away with his clothes. Moses followed that 
stone saying, "My clothes, O stone! My clothes, O stone! till the people of Bani Israel saw him and 
said, 'By Allah, Moses has got no defect in his body. Moses took his clothes and began to beat the 
stone." Abu Huraira added, "By Allah! There are still six or seven marks present on the stone from 
that excessive beating."
Bukhari:279 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) Job (Aiyub) was taking a bath naked, 
golden locusts began to fall on him. Job started collecting them in his clothes. His Lord addressed 
him, 'O Job! Haven't I given you enough so that you are not in need of them.' Job replied, 'Yes!' By 
Your Honor (power)! But I cannot dispense with Your Blessings.' "
Bukhari:280 Narrated Um Hani bint Abi Talib:I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of the conquest of Mecca and found him taking a bath while 
Fatima was screening him. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who is it?" I replied, "I am Um-Hani."
Bukhari:281 Narrated Maimuna:I screened the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was taking a bath of Janaba. He washed his hands, poured water from 
his right hand over his left and washed his private parts. Then he rubbed his hand over a wall or the 
earth, and performed ablution similar to that for the prayer but did not wash his feet. Then he poured 
water over his body, shifted from that place, and washed his feet.
Bukhari:282 Narrated Um-Salama:(the mother of the believers) Um Sulaim, the wife of Abu Talha, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily Allah is not shy of (telling you) the truth. Is it necessary for a woman to take a 
bath after she has a wet dream (nocturnal sexual discharge)?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Yes, if she 
notices a discharge."
Bukhari:283 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) came across me in one of the streets of Medina and at that time I was Junub. So I slipped 
away from him and went to take a bath. On my return the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Huraira! Where have 
you been?" I replied, "I was Junub, so I disliked to sit in your company." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Subhan 
Allah! A believer never becomes impure."
Bukhari:284 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to visit all his wives in one night and he had nine wives at that time.
Bukhari:285 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came across me and I was Junub. He took my hand and I went along with him till he 
sat down I slipped away, went home and took a bath. When I came back, he was still sitting there. He 
then said to me, "O Abu Huraira! Where have you been?' I told him about it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Subhan Allah! O Abu Huraira! A believer never becomes impure."
Bukhari:286 Narrated Abu Salama:I asked `Aisha "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to sleep while he was Junub?" She replied, "Yes, but he used to 
perform ablution (before going to bed).
Bukhari:287 Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "Can any one of us sleep while he is Junub?" He replied, "Yes, if he performs 
ablution, he can sleep while he is Junub."
Bukhari:288 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to sleep while he was Junub, he used to wash his private parts and 
perform ablution like that for the prayer.
Bukhari:289 Narrated `Abdullah:`Umar asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "Can anyone of us sleep while he is Junub?" He replied, "Yes, if he performs 
ablution."
Bukhari:290 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "I became Junub at night." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, 
"Perform ablution after washing your private parts and then sleep."
Bukhari:291 Narrated Hisham:as the following Hadith 290.Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a man sits in between the four parts of a woman and did the sexual 
intercourse with her, bath becomes compulsory."
Bukhari:292 Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:I asked `Uthman bin `Affan about a man who engaged in the sexual intercourse with his wife but did 
not discharge. `Uthman replied, "He should perform ablution like that for the prayer after washing his 
private parts." `Uthman added, "I heard that from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." I asked `Ali bin Abi Talib, Az- 
Zubair bin Al-`Awwam, Talha bin 'Ubaidullah and Ubai bin Ka`b and they gave the same reply. (Abu 
Aiyub said that he had heard that from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ) (This order was canceled later on so one has 
to take a bath. See, Hadith No. 180).
Bukhari:293 Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about a man who engages in sexual intercourse with his wife but does not 
discharge. He replied, "He should wash the parts which comes in contact with the private parts of the 
woman, perform ablution and then pray." (Abu `Abdullah said, "Taking a bath is safer and is the last 
order.")
Bukhari:294 Narrated Al-Qasim:`Aisha said, "We set out with the sole intention of performing Hajj and when we reached Sarif, (a 
place six miles from Mecca) I got my menses. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me while I was weeping. He 
said 'What is the matter with you? Have you got your menses?' I replied, 'Yes.' He said, 'This is a thing 
which Allah has ordained for the daughters of Adam. So do what all the pilgrims do with the 
exception of the Tawaf (Circumambulation) round the Ka`ba." `Aisha added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
sacrificed cows on behalf of his wives."
Bukhari:295 Narrated `Aisha:While in menses, I used to comb the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) .
Bukhari:296 Narrated `Urwa:A person asked me, "Can a woman in menses serve me? And can a Junub woman come close to me?" 
I replied, "All this is easy for me. All of them can serve me, and there is no harm for any other person 
to do the same. `Aisha told me that she used to comb the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while she was in her 
menses, and he was in I`tikaf (in the mosque). He would bring his head near her in her room and she 
would comb his hair, while she used to be in her menses."
Bukhari:297 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to lean on my lap and recite Qur'an while I was in menses.
Bukhari:298 Narrated Um Salama:While I was laying with the Prophet (ﷺ) under a single woolen sheet, I got the menses. I slipped away and 
put on the clothes for menses. He said, "Have you got "Nifas" (menses)?" I replied, "Yes." He then 
called me and made me lie with him under the same sheet.
Bukhari:299 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot while we were Junub. During the menses, he 
used to order me to put on an Izar (dress worn below the waist) and used to fondle me. While in 
I`tikaf, he used to bring his head near me and I would wash it while I used to be in my periods 
(menses).
Bukhari:300 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot while we were Junub. During the menses, he 
used to order me to put on an Izar (dress worn below the waist) and used to fondle me. While in 
I`tikaf, he used to bring his head near me and I would wash it while I used to be in my periods 
(menses).
