Bukhari:3500 Narrated Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut`im:That while he was with a delegation from Quraish to Muawiya, the latter heard the news that 
`Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As said that there would be a king from the tribe of Qahtan. On that 
Muawiya became angry, got up and then praised Allah as He deserved, and said, "Now then, I have 
heard that some men amongst you narrate things which are neither in the Holy Book, nor have been 
told by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Those men are the ignorant amongst you. Beware of such hopes as make the 
people go astray, for I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'Authority of ruling will remain with Quraish, and 
whoever bears hostility to them, Allah will destroy him as long as they abide by the laws of the 
religion.' "
Bukhari:3501 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Authority of ruling will remain with Quraish, even if only two of them remained."
Bukhari:3502 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:`Uthman bin `Affan went (to the Prophet) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You gave property to Bani Al-Muttalib and did not give us, although we and they are of the same degree of relationship to you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Only Bani Hashim and Bani Al Muttalib are one thing (as regards family status).
Bukhari:3503 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair went with some women of the tribe of Bani Zuhra to `Aisha who used to treat them nicely because of their relation to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:3504 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The tribe of Quraish, the Ansar, the (people of the tribe of) Julhaina, Muzaina, 
Aslam, Ashja', and Ghifar are my disciples and have no protectors except Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:3505 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair was the most beloved person to `Aisha excluding the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr, 
and he in his turn, was the most devoted to her, `Aisha used not to withhold the money given to her by 
Allah, but she used to spend it in charity. (`Abdullah) bin AzZubair said, " `Aisha should be stopped 
from doing so." (When `Aisha heard this), she said protestingly, "Shall I be stopped from doing so? I 
vow that I will never talk to `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair." On that, Ibn Az-Zubair asked some people 
from Quraish and particularly the two uncles of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to intercede with her, but she refused 
(to talk to him). Az-Zuhriyun, the uncles of the Prophet, including `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 
`Abd Yaghuth and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama said to him, "When we ask for the permission to visit 
her, enter her house along with us (without taking her leave)." He did accordingly (and she accepted 
their intercession). He sent her ten slaves whom she manumitted as an expiation for (not keeping) her 
vow. `Aisha manumitted more slaves for the same purpose till she manumitted forty slaves. She said, 
"I wish I had specified what I would have done in case of not fulfilling my vow when I made the vow, 
so that I might have done it easily."
Bukhari:3506 Narrated Anas:`Uthman called Zaid bin Thabit, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, Sa`id bin Al-`As and `AbdurRahman bin 
Al-Harith bin Hisham, and then they wrote the manuscripts of the Holy Qur'an in the form of book in 
several copies. `Uthman said to the three Quraishi persons. " If you differ with Zaid bin Thabit on any 
point of the Qur'an, then write it in the language of Quraish, as the Qur'an was revealed in their 
language." So they acted accordingly. (Sa`id bin Thabit was an Ansari and not from Quraish ).
Bukhari:3507 Narrated Salama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by some people from the tribe of Aslam practicing archery. He said, "O 
children of Ishmael! Throw (arrows), for your father was an archer. I am on the side of Bani so-andso," 
meaning one of the two teams. The other team stopped throwing, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"What has happened to them?" They replied, "How shall we throw while you are with Bani so-andso?" 
He said, "Throw for I am with all of you."
Bukhari:3508 Narrated Abu Dhar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody claims to be the son of any other than his real father knowingly, he 
but disbelieves in Allah, and if somebody claims to belong to some folk to whom he does not belong, 
let such a person take his place in the (Hell) Fire."
Bukhari:3509 Narrated Wathila bin Al-Asqa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Verily, one of the worst lies is to claim falsely to be the son of someone other 
than one's real father, or to claim to have had a dream one has not had, or to attribute to me what I 
have not said."
Bukhari:3510 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The delegates of `Abd-ul-Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are from the 
tribe of Rabi`a and the infidels of Mudar tribe stand between us and you, so that we cannot come to 
you except in the Sacred Months. Therefore we would like you to give us some instructions which we 
may follow and convey to our people staying behind us." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I order you to observe 
four things and forbid you (to do) four things: (I order you) to believe in Allah testifying that None 
has the right to be worshipped except Allah; to offer the prayer perfectly; to pay the Zakat; and to give 
one-fifth of the war booty to Allah. And I forbid you to use Ad-Dubba, Al-Hantam, An-Naqir and Al- 
Muzaffat." (These are names of utensils in which alcoholic drinks were served.)
Bukhari:3511 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the pulpit saying, "Verily, afflictions (will start) from here," pointing 
towards the east, "whence the side of the head of Satan comes out."
Bukhari:3512 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The tribes of Quraish, Al-Ansar, Juhaina, Muzaina, Aslam, Ghifar and Ashja' are 
my helpers, and they have no protector (i.e. Master) except Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:3513 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on the pulpit, he said, "May Allah forgive the tribe of Ghifar! And may Allah 
save the tribe of Aslam! The tribe of `Usaiya have disobeyed Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:3514 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah save the tribe of Aslam, and may Allah forgive the tribe of Ghifar!"
Bukhari:3515 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you think that the tribes of Juhaina, Muzaina, Aslam and Ghifar are better than 
the tribes of Bani Tamim, Bani Asad, Bani `Abdullah bin Ghatafan and Bani Amir bin Sasaa?" A man 
said, "They were unsuccessful and losers." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "(Yes), they are better than the tribes 
of Bani Tamim, Bani Asad, Bani `Abdullah bin Ghatafan and Bani Amir bin Sasaa."
Bukhari:3516 Narrated Abu Bakra:Al-Aqra' bin Habis said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Nobody gave you the pledge of allegiance but the robbers of 
the pilgrims (i.e. those who used to rob the pilgrims) from the tribes of Aslam, Ghifar, Muzaina." (Ibn 
Abi Ya'qub is in doubt whether Al-Aqra' added. 'And Juhaina.') The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't you think 
that the tribes of Aslam, Ghifar, Muzaina (and also perhaps) Juhaina are better than the tribes of Bani 
Tamim, Bani Amir, Asad, and Ghatafan?" Somebody said, "They were unsuccessful and losers!" The 
Prophet said, "Yes, by Him in Whose Hands my life is, they (i.e. the former) are better than they (i.e. 
the latter).
Bukhari:3517 Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hour will not be established unless a man from the tribe of Qahtan appears, driving the people with his stick (ruling them with violence and oppression)."
Bukhari:3518 Narrated Jabir:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in a Ghazwa. A large number of emigrants joined him and 
among the emigrants there was a person who used to play jokes (or play with spears); so he (jokingly) 
stroked an Ansari man on the hip. The Ans-ari got so angry that both of them called their people. The 
Ansari said, "Help, O Ansar!" And the emigrant said "Help, O emigrants!" The Prophet (ﷺ) came out and 
said, "What is wrong with the people (as they are calling) this call of the period of Ignorance? "Then 
he said, "What is the matter with them?" So he was told about the stroke of the emigrant to the Ansari. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Stop this (i.e. appeal for help) for it is an evil call. "Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul (a 
hypocrite) said, "The emigrants have called and (gathered against us); so when we return to Medina, 
surely, the more honorable people will expel therefrom the meaner," Upon that `Umar said, "O Allah's 
Prophet! Shall we not kill this evil person (i.e. `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul) ?" The Prophet) said, 
"(No), lest the people should say that Muhammad used to kill his companions."
Bukhari:3519 Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who-ever slaps his face or tears the bosom of his dress, or calls the calls of the 
Period of Ignorance, is not from us."
Bukhari:3520 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "`Amr bin Luhai bin Qam'a bin Khindif was the father of Khuza`a.'
Bukhari:3521 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:Al-Bahira was an animal whose milk was spared for the idols and other dieties, and so nobody was 
allowed to milk it. As-Saiba was an animal which they (i.e infidels) used to set free in the names of 
their gods so that it would not be used for carrying anything. Abu Huraira said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I 
saw `Amr bin 'Amir bin Luhai Al-Khuza`i dragging his intestines in the (Hell) Fire, for he was the 
first man who started the custom of releasing animals (for the sake of false gods).' "
Bukhari:3522 Narrated Abu Jamra:Ibn `Abbas said to us, "Shall I tell you the story of Abu Dhar's conversion to Islam?" We said, "Yes." 
He said, "Abu Dhar said: I was a man from the tribe of Ghifar. We heard that a man had appeared in 
Mecca, claiming to be a Prophet. ! said to my brother, 'Go to that man and talk to him and bring me 
his news.' He set out, met him and returned. I asked him, 'What is the news with you?' He said, 'By 
Allah, I saw a man enjoining what is good and forbidding what is evil.' I said to him, 'You have not 
satisfied me with this little information.' So, I took a waterskin and a stick and proceeded towards 
Mecca. Neither did I know him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ), nor did I like to ask anyone about him. 
I Kept on drinking Zam zam water and staying in the Mosque. Then `Ali passed by me and said, 'It 
seems you are a stranger?' I said, 'Yes.' He proceeded to his house and I accompanied him. Neither did 
he ask me anything, nor did I tell him anything. Next morning I went to the Mosque to ask about the 
Prophet but no-one told me anything about him. `Ali passed by me again and asked, 'Hasn't the man 
recognized his dwelling place yet' I said, 'No.' He said, 'Come along with me.' He asked me, 'What is 
your business? What has brought you to this town?' 
I said to him, 'If you keep my secret, I will tell you.' He said, 'I will do,' I said to him, 'We have heard 
that a person has appeared here, claiming to be a Prophet. 
I sent my brother to speak to him and when he returned, he did not bring a satisfactory report; so I 
thought of meeting him personally.' `Ali said (to Abu Dhar), 'You have reached your goal; I am going 
to him just now, so follow me, and wherever I enter, enter after me. If I should see someone who may 
cause you trouble, I will stand near a wall pretending to mend my shoes (as a warning), and you 
should go away then.' `Ali proceeded and I accompanied him till he entered a place, and I entered with 
him to the Prophet (ﷺ) to whom I said, 'Present (the principles of) Islam to me.' When he did, I embraced 
Islam 'immediately. 
He said to me, 'O Abu Dhar! Keep your conversion as a secret and return to your town; and when you 
hear of our victory, return to us. ' I said, 'By H him Who has sent you with the Truth, I will announce 
my conversion to Islam publicly amongst them (i.e. the infidels),' Abu Dhar went to the Mosque, 
where some people from Quraish were present, and said, 'O folk of Quraish ! I testify that None has 
the right to be worshipped except Allah, and I (also) testify that Muhammad is Allah's Slave and His 
Apostle.' (Hearing that) the Quraishi men said, 'Get at this Sabi (i.e. Muslim) !' They got up and beat 
me nearly to death. Al `Abbas saw me and threw himself over me to protect me. He then faced them 
and said, 'Woe to you! You want to kill a man from the tribe of Ghifar, although your trade and your 
communications are through the territory of Ghifar?' They therefore left me. The next morning I 
returned (to the Mosque) and said the same as I have said on the previous day. They again said, 'Get at 
this Sabi!' I was treated in the same way as on the previous day, and again Al-Abbas found me and 
threw himself over me to protect me and told them the same as he had said the day before.' So, that 
was the conversion of Abu Dhar (may Allah be Merciful to him) to Islam."
Bukhari:3523 Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (The people of) Aslam, Ghifar and some people of Muzaina and Juhaina or said (some people of Juhaina or Muzaina) are better with Allah or said (on the Day of resurrection) than the tribe of Asad, Tamim, Hawazin and Ghatafan.
Bukhari:3524 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:If you wish to know about the ignorance of the Arabs, refer to Surat-al-Anam after Verse No. 130:-- 
Indeed lost are those who have killed their children From folly without knowledge and have forbidden 
that which Allah has provided for them, inventing a lie against Allah. They have indeed gone astray 
and were not guided.' (6.14)
Bukhari:3525 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Verse:-- 'And warn your tribe of near kindred.' (26.214) was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) started 
calling (the 'Arab tribes), "O Bani Fihr, O Bani `Adi" mentioning first the various branch tribes of 
Quraish.
Bukhari:3526 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Verse:-- 'And warn your tribe of near kindred' (26.214). was revealed, 
the Prophet (ﷺ) started calling every tribe by its name.
Bukhari:3527 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Bani `Abd Munaf! Buy yourselves from Allah; O Bani `Abdul-Muttalib! Buy 
yourselves from Allah; O mother of Az-Zubair bin Al-Awwam, the aunt of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and O 
Fatima bint Muhammad! Buy yourselves from Allah, for I cannot defend you before Allah. You 
(both) can ask me from my property as much as you like. "
Bukhari:3528 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for the Ansar (and when they came), he asked, 'Is there any stranger amongst you?" 
They said, "No except the son of our sister." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The son of the sister of some 
people belongs to them."
Bukhari:3529 Narrated `Aisha:That during the Mina days, Abu Bakr came to her, while there where two girls with her, beating 
drums, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was (lying) covering himself with his garment. Abu Bakr rebuked the two 
girls, but the Prophet (ﷺ) uncovered his face and said, "O Abu Bakr! Leave them, for these are the days of 
Id (festival)." Those days were the days of Mina-. `Aisha added, "I was being screened by the Prophet (ﷺ) 
while I was watching the Ethiopians playing in the Mosque. `Umar rebuked them, but the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Leave them, O Bani Arfida! Play. (for) you are safe."
Bukhari:3530 Narrated `Aisha:That during the Mina days, Abu Bakr came to her, while there where two girls with her, beating 
drums, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was (lying) covering himself with his garment. Abu Bakr rebuked the two 
girls, but the Prophet (ﷺ) uncovered his face and said, "O Abu Bakr! Leave them, for these are the days of 
Id (festival)." Those days were the days of Mina-. `Aisha added, "I was being screened by the Prophet (ﷺ) 
while I was watching the Ethiopians playing in the Mosque. `Umar rebuked them, but the Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Leave them, O Bani Arfida! Play. (for) you are safe."
Bukhari:3531 Narrated `Aisha:Once Hassan bin Thabit asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to lampoon (i.e. compose satirical poetry 
defaming) the infidels. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What about the fact that I have common descent with 
them?" Hassan replied, "I shall take you out of them as a hair is taken out of dough." 
Narrated `Urwa: I started abusing Hassan in front of `Aisha, whereupon she said. "Don't abuse him, 
for he used to defend the Prophet (with his poetry).
Bukhari:3532 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have five names: I am Muhammad and Ahmad; I am Al-Mahi through whom 
Allah will eliminate infidelity; I am Al-Hashir who will be the first to be resurrected, the people being 
resurrected there after; and I am also Al-`Aqib (i.e. There will be no prophet after me).
Bukhari:3533 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Doesn't it astonish you how Allah protects me from the Quraish's abusing and 
cursing? They abuse Mudhammam and curse Mudhammam while I am Muhammad (and not 
Mudhammam).
Bukhari:3534 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My similitude in comparison with the other prophets is that of a man who has built 
a house completely and excellently except for a place of one brick. When the people enter the house, 
they admire its beauty and say: 'But for the place of this brick (how splendid the house will be)!"
Bukhari:3535 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "My similitude in comparison with the other prophets before me, is that of a man 
who has built a house nicely and beautifully, except for a place of one brick in a corner. The people go 
about it and wonder at its beauty, but say: 'Would that this brick be put in its place!' So I am that brick, 
and I am the last of the Prophets."
Bukhari:3536 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) died when he was sixty three years old.
Bukhari:3537 Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in the market, a man called (somebody), "O Abu-l-Qasim!' The Prophet (ﷺ) turned 
to him and said "Name yourselves after me but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya."
Bukhari:3538 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya."
Bukhari:3539 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim said, "Name yourselves after me, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya."
Bukhari:3540 Narrated Al-Ju'aid bin `Abdur Rahman:I saw As-Sa'ib bin Yazid when he was ninety-four years old, quite strong and of straight figure. He 
said, "I know that I enjoyed my hearing and seeing powers only because of the invocation of Allah's 
Apostle . My aunt took me to him and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My nephew is sick; will you invoke 
Allah for him?' So he invoked (Allah) for me."
Bukhari:3541 Narrated As- Scab bin Yazid:My aunt took me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My nephew is sick"' The Prophet (ﷺ) 
passed his hands over my head and blessed me. Then he performed ablution and I drank the remaining 
water, and standing behind him. A saw the seal in between his shoulders."
Bukhari:3542 Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:(Once) Abu Bakr offered the `Asr prayer and then went out walking and saw Al-Hasan playing with 
the boys. He lifted him on to his shoulders and said, " Let my parents be sacrificed for your sake! 
(You) resemble the Prophet (ﷺ) and not `Ali," while `Ali was smiling.
Bukhari:3543 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:I saw the Prophet, and Al-Hasan resembled him.
Bukhari:3544 Narrated Isma`il bin Abi Khalid:I heard Abii Juhaifa saying, "I saw the Prophet, and Al-Hasan bin `Ali resembled him." I said to Abu- 
Juhaifa, "Describe him for me." He said, "He was white and his beard was black with some white hair. 
He promised to give us 13 young she-camels, but he expired before we could get them."
Bukhari:3545 Narrated Wahb Abu Juhaifa As-Sawwai:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and saw some white hair below his lower lip above the chin.
Bukhari:3546 Narrated Hariz bin `Uthman:That he asked `Abdullah bin Busr (i.e. the companion of the Prophet), "Did you see the Prophet (ﷺ) when 
he was old?" He said, "He had a few white hairs between the lower lip and the chin."
Bukhari:3547 Narrated Rabi`a bin Abi `Abdur-Rahman:I heard Anas bin Malik describing the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "He was of medium height amongst the people, 
neither tall nor short; he had a rosy color, neither absolutely white nor deep brown; his hair was 
neither completely curly nor quite lank. Divine Inspiration was revealed to him when he was forty 
years old. He stayed ten years in Mecca receiving the Divine Inspiration, and stayed in Medina for ten 
more years. When he expired, he had scarcely twenty white hairs in his head and beard." Rabi`a said, 
"I saw some of his hairs and it was red. When I asked about that, I was told that it turned red because 
of scent. "
Bukhari:3548 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither very tall nor short, neither absolutely white nor deep brown. His hair was 
neither curly nor lank. Allah sent him (as an Apostle) when he was forty years old. Afterwards he 
resided in Mecca for ten years and in Medina for ten more years. When Allah took him unto Him, 
there was scarcely twenty white hairs in his head and beard.
Bukhari:3549 Narrated Al-Bara:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the handsomest of all the people, and had the best appearance. He was neither 
very tall nor short.
Bukhari:3550 Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to dye (his) hair?" He said, "No, for there were only a few white 
hairs on his temples."
Bukhari:3551 Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) was of moderate height having broad shoulders (long) hair reaching his ear-lobes. Once I 
saw him in a red cloak and I had never seen a more handsome than him."
Bukhari:3552 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:Al-Bara' was asked, "Was the face of the Prophet (as bright) as a sword?" He said, "No, but (as bright) 
as a moon."
Bukhari:3553 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Al-Batha' at noon, performed the ablution and offered' a two rak`at Zuhr 
prayer and a two-rak`at `Asr prayer while a spearheaded stick was planted before him and the 
passersby were passing in front of it. (After the prayer), the people got up and held the hands of the 
Prophet and passed them on their faces. I also took his hand and kept it on my face and noticed that it 
was colder than ice, and its smell was nicer than musk.
Bukhari:3554 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was the most generous of all the people, and he used to become more generous in 
Ramadan when Gabriel met him. Gabriel used to meet him every night during Ramadan to revise the 
Qur'an with him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then used to be more generous than the fast wind.
Bukhari:3555 Narrated `Aisha:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to her in a happy mood with his features glittering with joy, and said, 
"Have you not heard what the Qaif has said about Zaid and Us-ama? He saw their feet and remarked. 
These belong to each other." (i.e. They are father and son.)
Bukhari:3556 Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b:I heard Ka`b bin Malik talking after his failure to join (the Ghazwa of) Tabuk. He said, "When I 
greeted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) whose face was glittering with happiness, for whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was 
happy, his face used to glitter, as if it was a piece of the moon, and we used to recognize it (i.e. his 
happiness) from his face."
Bukhari:3557 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent (as an Apostle) in the best of all the generations of Adam's 
offspring since their Creation."
Bukhari:3558 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to let his hair hang down while the infidels used to part their hair. The people of 
the Scriptures were used to letting their hair hang down and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) liked to follow the people 
of the Scriptures in the matters about which he was not instructed otherwise. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
parted his hair.
Bukhari:3559 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) never used bad language neither a "Fahish nor a Mutafahish. He used to say "The best 
amongst you are those who have the best manners and character." (See Hadith No. 56 (B) Vol. 8)
Bukhari:3560 Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was given the choice of one of two matters, he would choose the easier of 
the two, as long as it was not sinful to do so, but if it was sinful to do so, he would not approach it. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never took revenge (over anybody) for his own sake but (he did) only when Allah's 
Legal Bindings were outraged in which case he would take revenge for Allah's Sake.
Bukhari:3561 Narrated Anas:I have never touched silk or Dibaj (i.e. thick silk) softer than the palm of the Prophet (ﷺ) nor have I smelt 
a perfume nicer than the sweat of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3562 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) was shier than a veiled virgin girl.
Bukhari:3563 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) never criticized any food (presented him), but he would eat it if he liked it; otherwise, he 
would leave it (without expressing his dislike).
Bukhari:3564 Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina Al-Asdi:When the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated, he used to keep his arms so widely apart that we used to see his armpits. 
(The sub-narrator, Ibn Bukair said, "The whiteness of his armpits.")
Bukhari:3565 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not use to raise his hands in his invocations except in the Istisqa (i.e. invoking 
Allah for the rain) in which he used to raise his hands so high that one could see the whiteness of his 
armpits. (Note: It may be that Anas did not see the prophet (as) raising his hands but it has been 
narrated that the Prophet (as) used to raise his hands for invocations other than Istisqa. See Hadith No. 
612 Vol. 5. and Hadith No. 807 & 808 Vol 2.)
Bukhari:3566 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:By chance I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) at noon while he was at Al-Abtah (resting) in a tent. Bilal came out 
(of the tent) and pronounced the Adhan for the prayer, and entering again, he brought out the water 
which was left after Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had performed the ablution. The people rushed to take some of 
the water. Bilal again went in and brought out a spear-headed stick, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came 
out. As if I were now looking at the whiteness of his leg. Bilal fixed the stick and the Prophet (ﷺ) offered 
a two-rak`at Zuhr prayer and a two-rak`at `Asr prayer, while women and donkeys were passing in 
front of the Prophet (beyond the stick) .
Bukhari:3567 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to talk so clearly that if somebody wanted to count the number of his words, he 
could do so. Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: `Aisha said (to me), "Don't you wonder at Abu so-and-so 
who came and sat by my dwelling and started relating the traditions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intending to let 
me hear that, while I was performing an optional prayer. He left before I finished my optional prayer. 
Had I found him still there. I would have said to him, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never talked so quickly and 
vaguely as you do.' "
Bukhari:3568 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to talk so clearly that if somebody wanted to count the number of his words, he 
could do so. Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: `Aisha said (to me), "Don't you wonder at Abu so-and-so 
who came and sat by my dwelling and started relating the traditions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intending to let 
me hear that, while I was performing an optional prayer. He left before I finished my optional prayer. 
Had I found him still there. I would have said to him, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never talked so quickly and 
vaguely as you do.' "
Bukhari:3569 Narrated Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman:That he asked `Aisha "How was the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the month of Ramadan?" She replied, 
"He used not to pray more than eleven rak`at whether in Ramadan or in any other month. He used to 
offer four rak`at, let alone their beauty and length, and then four rak`at, let alone their beauty and 
length. Afterwards he would offer three rak`at. I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you go to bed before 
offering the witr prayer?' He said, 'My eyes sleep, but my heart does not sleep."'
Bukhari:3570 Narrated Sharik bin `Abdullah bin Abi Namr:I heard Anas bin Malik telling us about the night when the Prophet (ﷺ) was made to travel from the Ka`ba 
Mosque. Three persons (i.e. angels) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) before he was divinely inspired was an 
Aspostle), while he was sleeping in Al Masjid-ul-Haram. The first (of the three angels) said, "Which 
of them is he?" The second said, "He is the best of them." That was all that happened then, and he did 
not see them till they came at another night and he perceived their presence with his heart, for the eyes 
of the Prophet (ﷺ) were closed when he was asleep, but his heart was not asleep (not unconscious). This is 
characteristic of all the prophets: Their eyes sleep but their hearts do not sleep. Then Gabriel took 
charge of the Prophet (ﷺ) and ascended along with him to the Heaven.
Bukhari:3571 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:That they were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey. They travelled the whole night, and when dawn 
approached, they took a rest and sleep overwhelmed them till the sun rose high in the sky. The first to 
get up was Abu Bakr. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s used not to be awakened from his sleep, but he would wake up 
by himself. `Umar woke up and then Abu Bakr sat by the side of the Prophet's head and started 
saying: Allahu-Akbar raising his voice till the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up, (and after traveling for a while) he 
dismounted and led us in the morning prayer. A man amongst the people failed to join us in the 
prayer. When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished the prayer, he asked (the man), "O so-and-so! What prevented 
you from offering the prayer with us?" He replied, "I am Junub," Alllah's Apostle ordered him to 
perform Tayammam with clean earth. 
The man then offered the prayer. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me and a few others to go ahead of him. We 
had become very thirsty. While we were on our way (looking for water), we came across a lady 
(riding an animal), hanging her legs between two water-skins. We asked her, "Where can we get 
water?" She replied, "Oh ! There is no water." We asked, "how far is your house from the water?" She 
replied, "A distance of a day and a night travel." We said, "Come on to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "She asked, 
"What is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" So we brought her to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) against her will, and she told him 
what she had told us before and added that she was the mother of orphans. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that 
her two water-skins be brought and he rubbed the mouths of the water-skins. As we were thirsty, we 
drank till we quenched our thirst and we were forty men. We also filled all our waterskins and other 
utensils with water, but we did not water the camels. The waterskin was so full that it was almost 
about to burst. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Bring what (foodstuff) you have." So some dates and pieces of bread were 
collected for the lady, and when she went to her people, she said, "I have met either the greatest 
magician or a prophet as the people claim." So Allah guided the people of that village through that 
lady. She embraced Islam and they all embraced Islam.
Bukhari:3572 Narrated Anas:A bowl of water was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was at Az-Zawra. He placed his hand in it and 
the water started flowing among his fingers. All the people performed ablution (with that water). 
Qatada asked Anas, "How many people were you?" Anas replied, "Three hundred or nearly three hundred."
Bukhari:3573 Narrated Anas bin Malik:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the 'time when the `Asr prayer was due. Then the people were searching for 
water for ablution but they could not find any. Then some water was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he 
placed his hand in the pot and ordered the people to perform the ablution with the water. I saw water 
flowing from underneath his fingers and the people started performing the ablution till all of them did 
it.
Bukhari:3574 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on one of his journeys with some of his companions. They went on walking till 
the time of the prayer became due. They could not find water to perform the ablution. One of them 
went away and brought a little amount of water in a pot. The Prophet (ﷺ) took it and performed the 
ablution, and then stretched his four fingers on to the pot and said (to the people), "Get up to perform 
the ablution." They started performing the ablution till all of them did it, and they were seventy or so 
persons.
Bukhari:3575 Narrated Humaid:Anas bin Malik said, "Once the time of the prayer became due and the people whose houses were 
close to the Mosque went to their houses to perform ablution, while the others remained (sitting there). 
A stone pot containing water was brought to the Prophet, who wanted to put his hand in it, but It was 
too small for him to spread his hand in it, and so he had to bring his fingers together before putting his 
hand in the pot. Then all the people performed the ablution (with that water)." I asked Anas, "How 
many persons were they." He replied, "There were eighty men."
Bukhari:3576 Narrated Salim bin Abi Aj-Jad:Jabir bin `Abdullah said, "The people became very thirsty on the day of Al-Hudaibiya (Treaty). A 
small pot containing some water was in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he had finished the ablution, 
the people rushed towards him. He asked, 'What is wrong with you?' They replied, 'We have no water 
either for performing ablution or for drinking except what is present in front of you.' So he placed his 
hand in that pot and the water started flowing among his fingers like springs. We all drank and 
performed ablution (from it)." I asked Jabir, "How many were you?" he replied, "Even if we had been 
one-hundred-thousand, it would have been sufficient for us, but we were fifteen-hundred."
Bukhari:3577 Narrated Al-Bara:We were one-thousand-and-four-hundred persons on the day of Al-Hudaibiya (Treaty), and (at) Al- 
Hudaibiya (there) was a well. We drew out its water not leaving even a single drop. The Prophet (ﷺ) sat at 
the edge of the well and asked for some water with which he rinsed his mouth and then he threw it out 
into the well. We stayed for a short while and then drew water from the well and quenched our thirst, 
and even our riding animals drank water to their satisfaction.
Bukhari:3578 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Abu Talha said to Um Sulaim, "I have noticed feebleness in the voice of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which I 
think, is caused by hunger. Have you got any food?" She said, "Yes." She brought out some loaves of 
barley and took out a veil belonging to her, and wrapped the bread in part of it and put it under my 
arm and wrapped part of the veil round me and sent me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I went carrying it and 
found Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the Mosque sitting with some people. When I stood there, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
asked, "Has Abu Talha sent you?" I said, "Yes". He asked, "With some food? I said, "Yes" Allah's 
Apostle then said to the men around him, "Get up!" He set out (accompanied by them) and I went 
ahead of them till I reached Abu Talha and told him (of the Prophet's visit). Abu Talha said, "O Um 
Sulaim! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is coming with the people and we have no food to feed them." She said, 
"Allah and His Apostle know better." So Abu Talha went out to receive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's 
Apostle came along with Abu Talha. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Um Sulaim! Bring whatever you have." 
She brought the bread which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered to be broken into pieces. Um Sulaim poured on 
them some butter from an oilskin. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited what Allah wished him to recite, and 
then said, "Let ten persons come (to share the meal)." Ten persons were admitted, ate their fill and 
went out. Then he again said, "Let another ten do the same." They were admitted, ate their fill and 
went out. Then he again said, '"'Let another ten persons (do the same.)" They were admitted, ate their 
fill and went out. Then he said, "Let another ten persons come." In short, all of them ate their fill, and 
they were seventy or eighty men.
Bukhari:3579 Narrated `Abdullah:We used to consider miracles as Allah's Blessings, but you people consider them to be a warning. 
Once we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on a journey, and we ran short of water. He said, "Bring the water 
remaining with you." The people brought a utensil containing a little water. He placed his hand in it 
and said, "Come to the blessed water, and the Blessing is from Allah." I saw the water flowing from 
among the fingers of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and no doubt, we heard the meal glorifying Allah, when it was 
being eaten (by him).
Bukhari:3580 Narrated Jabir:My father had died in debt. So I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "My father (died) leaving unpaid debts, 
and I have nothing except the yield of his date palms; and their yield for many years will not cover his 
debts. So please come with me, so that the creditors may not misbehave with me." The Prophet (ﷺ) went 
round one of the heaps of dates and invoked (Allah), and then did the same with another heap and sat 
on it and said, "Measure (for them)." He paid them their rights and what remained was as much as had 
been paid to them.
Bukhari:3581 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr:The companions of Suffa were poor people. The Prophet (ﷺ) once said, "Whoever has food enough for 
two persons, should take a third one (from among them), and whoever has food enough for four 
persons, should take a fifth or a sixth (or said something similar)." Abu Bakr brought three persons 
while the Prophet (ﷺ) took ten. And Abu Bakr with his three family member (who were I, my father and 
my mother) (the sub-narrator is in doubt whether `Abdur-Rahman said, "My wife and my servant who 
was common for both my house and Abu Bakr's house.") Abu Bakr took his supper with the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and stayed there till he offered the `Isha' prayers. He returned and stayed till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took his 
supper. 
After a part of the night had passed, he returned to his house. His wife said to him, "What has detained 
you from your guests?" He said, "Have you served supper to them?" She said, "They refused to take 
supper until you come. They (i.e. some members of the household) presented the meal to them but 
they refused (to eat)" I went to hide myself and he said, "O Ghunthar!" He invoked Allah to cause my 
ears to be cut and he rebuked me. He then said (to them): Please eat!" and added, I will never eat the 
meal." By Allah, whenever we took a handful of the meal, the meal grew from underneath more than 
that handful till everybody ate to his satisfaction; yet the remaining food was more than the original 
meal. Abu Bakr saw that the food was as much or more than the original amount. He called his wife, 
"O sister of Bani Firas!" She said, "O pleasure of my eyes. The food has been tripled in quantity." 
Abu Bakr then started eating thereof and said, "It (i.e. my oath not to eat) was because of Sa all." He 
took a handful from it, and carried the rest to the Prophet. So that food was with the Prophet (ﷺ) . There 
was a treaty between us and some people, and when the period of that treaty had elapsed, he divided 
US into twelve groups, each being headed by a man. Allah knows how many men were under the 
command of each leader. Anyhow, the Prophet (ﷺ) surely sent a leader with each group. Then all of them 
ate of that meal.
Bukhari:3582 Narrated Anas:Once during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the people of Medina suffered from drought. So while the 
Prophet was delivering a sermon on a Friday a man got up saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The horses and 
sheep have perished. Will you invoke Allah to bless us with rain?" The Prophet (ﷺ) lifted both his hands 
and invoked. The sky at that time was as clear as glass. Suddenly a wind blew, raising clouds that 
gathered together, and it started raining heavily. We came out (of the Mosque) wading through the 
flowing water till we reached our homes. It went on raining till the next Friday, when the same man or 
some other man stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The houses have collapsed; please invoke 
Allah to withhold the rain." On that the Prophet (ﷺ) smiled and said, "O Allah, (let it rain) around us and 
not on us." I then looked at the clouds to see them separating forming a sort of a crown round Medina.
Bukhari:3583 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver his sermons while standing beside a trunk of a datepalm. When he had the 
pulpit made, he used it instead. The trunk started crying and the Prophet (ﷺ) went to it, rubbing his hand 
over it (to stop its crying).
Bukhari:3584 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stand by a tree or a date-palm on Friday. Then an Ansari woman or man said. "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we make a pulpit for you?" He replied, "If you wish." So they made a pulpit for 
him and when it was Friday, he proceeded towards the pulpit (for delivering the sermon). The datepalm 
cried like a child! The Prophet (ﷺ) descended (the pulpit) and embraced it while it continued 
moaning like a child being quietened. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It was crying for (missing) what it used to 
hear of religious knowledge given near to it."
Bukhari:3585 Narrated Anas bin Malik:That he heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "The roof of the Mosque was built over trunks of datepalms 
working as pillars. When the Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon, he used to stand by one of those 
trunks till the pulpit was made for him, and he used it instead. Then we heard the trunk sending a 
sound like of a pregnant she-camel till the Prophet (ﷺ) came to it, and put his hand over it, then it became 
quiet."
Bukhari:3586 Narrated Hudhaifa:Once `Umar bin Al-Khattab said, said, "Who amongst you remembers the statement of Allah's 
Apostle regarding the afflictions?" Hudhaifa replied, "I remember what he said exactly." `Umar said. 
"Tell (us), you are really a daring man!'' Hudhaifa said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'A man's afflictions (i.e. 
wrong deeds) concerning his relation to his family, his property and his neighbors are expiated by his 
prayers, giving in charity and enjoining what is good and forbidding what is evil.' " `Umar said, "I 
don't mean these afflictions but the afflictions that will be heaving up and down like waves of the 
sea." Hudhaifa replied, "O chief of the believers! You need not fear those (afflictions) as there is a 
closed door between you and them." `Umar asked, "Will that door be opened or broken?" Hudhaifa 
replied, "No, it will be broken." `Umar said, "Then it is very likely that the door will not be closed 
again." Later on the people asked Hudhaifa, "Did `Umar know what that door meant?" He said. "Yes, 
`Umar knew it as everyone knows that there will be night before the tomorrow morning. I narrated to 
`Umar an authentic narration, not lies." We dared not ask Hudhaifa; therefore we requested Masruq 
who asked him, "What does the door stand for?" He said, "`Umar."
Bukhari:3587 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till you fight a nation wearing hairy shoes, and till 
you fight the Turks, who will have small eyes, red faces and flat noses; and their faces will be like flat 
shields. And you will find that the best people are those who hate responsibility of ruling most of all 
till they are chosen to be the rulers. And the people are of different natures: The best in the pre-lslamic 
period are the best in Islam. A time will come when any of you will love to see me rather than to have 
his family and property doubled."
Bukhari:3588 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till you fight a nation wearing hairy shoes, and till 
you fight the Turks, who will have small eyes, red faces and flat noses; and their faces will be like flat 
shields. And you will find that the best people are those who hate responsibility of ruling most of all 
till they are chosen to be the rulers. And the people are of different natures: The best in the pre-lslamic 
period are the best in Islam. A time will come when any of you will love to see me rather than to have 
his family and property doubled."
Bukhari:3589 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till you fight a nation wearing hairy shoes, and till 
you fight the Turks, who will have small eyes, red faces and flat noses; and their faces will be like flat 
shields. And you will find that the best people are those who hate responsibility of ruling most of all 
till they are chosen to be the rulers. And the people are of different natures: The best in the pre-lslamic 
period are the best in Islam. A time will come when any of you will love to see me rather than to have 
his family and property doubled."
Bukhari:3590 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till you fight with the Khudh and the Kirman 
from among the non-Arabs. They will be of red faces, flat noses and small eyes; their faces will look 
like flat shields, and their shoes will be of hair."
Bukhari:3591 Narrated Abu Huraira:I enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for three years, and during the other years of my life, never 
was I so anxious to understand the (Prophet's) traditions as I was during those three years. I heard him 
saying, beckoning with his hand in this way, "Before the Hour you will fight with people who will 
have hairy shoes and live in Al-Bazir." (Sufyan, the sub-narrator once said, "And they are the people 
of Al-Bazir.")
Bukhari:3592 Narrated `Umar bin Taghlib:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Near the Hour you will fight with people who will wear hairy shoes; 
and you will also fight people with flat faces like shields."
Bukhari:3593 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The Jews will fight with you, and you will be given victory over them 
so that a stone will say, 'O Muslim! There is a Jew behind me; kill him!' "
Bukhari:3594 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A time will come when the people will wage holy war, and it will be asked, 'Is 
there any amongst you who has enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' They will say: 'Yes.' And 
then victory will be bestowed upon them. They will wage holy war again, and it will be asked: 'Is 
there any among you who has enjoyed the company of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?' They will 
say: 'Yes.' And then victory will be bestowed on them."
Bukhari:3595 Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:While I was in the city of the Prophet, a man came and complained to him (the Prophet, ) of 
destitution and poverty. Then another man came and complained of robbery (by highwaymen). The 
Prophet said, "Adi! Have you been to Al-Hira?" I said, "I haven't been to it, but I was informed about 
it." He said, "If you should live for a long time, you will certainly see that a lady in a Howdah 
traveling from Al-Hira will (safely reach Mecca and) perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba, fearing none 
but Allah." I said to myself, "What will happen to the robbers of the tribe of Tai who have spread evil 
through out the country?" The Prophet (ﷺ) further said. "If you should live long, the treasures of Khosrau 
will be opened (and taken as spoils)." I asked, "You mean Khosrau, son of Hurmuz?" He said, 
"Khosrau, son of Hurmuz; and if you should live long, you will see that one will carry a handful of 
gold or silver and go out looking for a person to accept it from him, but will find none to accept it 
from him. And any of you, when meeting Allah, will meet Him without needing an interpreter 
between him and Allah to interpret for him, and Allah will say to him: 'Didn't I send a messenger to 
teach you?' He will say: 'Yes.' Allah will say: 'Didn't I give you wealth and do you favors?' He will 
say: 'Yes.' Then he will look to his right and see nothing but Hell, and look to his left and see nothing 
but Hell." 
`Adi further said: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Save yourself from the (Hell) Fire even with half a date 
(to be given in charity) and if you do not find a half date, then with a good pleasant word." `Adi 
added: (later on) I saw a lady in a Howdah traveling from Al-Hira till she performed the Tawaf of the 
Ka`ba, fearing none but Allah. And I was one of those who opened (conquered) the treasures of 
Khosrau, son of Hurmuz. If you should live long, you will see what the Prophet (ﷺ) Abu-l-Qasim had 
said: 'A person will come out with a handful. of gold...etc.
Bukhari:3596 Narrated `Uqba bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) once came out and offered the funeral prayer for the martyrs of Uhud, and proceeded to 
the pulpit and said, "I shall be your predecessor and a witness on you, and I am really looking at my 
sacred Fount now, and no doubt, I have been given the keys of the treasures of the world. By Allah, I 
am not afraid that you will worship others along with Allah, but I am afraid that you will envy and 
fight one another for worldly fortunes."
Bukhari:3597 Narrated Usama:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) stood on one of the high buildings (of Medina) and said, "Do you see what I see? I 
see affliction pouring among your hours like raindrops."
Bukhari:3598 Narrated Zainab bint Jahsh:That the Prophet (ﷺ) came to her in a state of fear saying, "None has the right to be worshiped but Allah! 
Woe to the Arabs because of evil that has come near. Today a hole has been made in the wall of Gog 
and Magog as large as this." pointing with two of his fingers making a circle. Zainab said, "I said, 'O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we be destroyed though amongst us there are pious people? ' He said, 'Yes, if 
evil increases."
Bukhari:3599 Um Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) woke up and said, "Glorified be Allah: What great (how many) 
treasures have been sent down, and what great (how many ) afflictions have been sent down!"
Bukhari:3600 Narrated Sasaa:Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri said to me, "I notice that you like sheep and you keep them; so take care of them 
and their food, for I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'A time will come upon the people when the 
best of a Muslim's property will be sheep, which he will take to the tops of mountains and to the 
places of rain-falls to run away with his religion in order to save it from afflictions.' "
Bukhari:3601 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be afflictions (and at the time) the sitting person will be better than 
the standing one, and the standing one will be better than the walking, and the walking will be better 
than the running. And whoever will look towards those afflictions, they will overtake him, and 
whoever will find a refuge or a shelter, should take refuge in it." The same narration is reported by 
Abu Bakr, with the addition, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), 'Among the prayers there is a prayer the missing of 
which will be to one like losing one's family and property."
Bukhari:3602 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be afflictions (and at the time) the sitting person will be better than 
the standing one, and the standing one will be better than the walking, and the walking will be better 
than the running. And whoever will look towards those afflictions, they will overtake him, and 
whoever will find a refuge or a shelter, should take refuge in it." The same narration is reported by 
Abu Bakr, with the addition, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), 'Among the prayers there is a prayer the missing of 
which will be to one like losing one's family and property."
Bukhari:3603 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Soon others will be preferred to you, and there will be things which you will not 
like." The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you order us to do (in this 
case)? " He said, "(I order you) to give the rights that are on you and to ask your rights from Allah."
Bukhari:3604 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This branch from Quraish will ruin the people." The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
asked, "What do you order us to do (then)?" He said, "I would suggest that the people keep away from 
them.''
Bukhari:3605 Narrated Sa`id Al-Umawi:I was with Marwan and Abu Huraira and heard Abu Huraira saying, "I heard the trustworthy, truly 
inspired one (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) saying, 'The destruction of my followers will be brought about by the 
hands of some youngsters from Quraish." Marwan asked, "Youngsters?" Abu Huraira said, "If you 
wish, I would name them: They are the children of so-and-so and the children of so-and-so."
Bukhari:3606 Narrated Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman:The people used to ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about good, but I used to ask him about evil for fear that it 
might overtake me. Once I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We were in ignorance and in evil and Allah has 
bestowed upon us the present good; will there by any evil after this good?" He said, "Yes." I asked, 
"Will there be good after that evil?" He said, "Yes, but it would be tained with Dakhan (i.e. Little 
evil)." I asked, "What will its Dakhan be?" He said, "There will be some people who will lead 
(people) according to principles other than my tradition. You will see their actions and disapprove of 
them." I said, "Will there by any evil after that good?" He said, "Yes, there will be some people who 
will invite others to the doors of Hell, and whoever accepts their invitation to it will be thrown in it 
(by them)." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Describe those people to us." He said, "They will belong to us 
and speak our language" I asked, "What do you order me to do if such a thing should take place in my 
life?" He said, "Adhere to the group of Muslims and their Chief." I asked, "If there is neither a group 
(of Muslims) nor a chief (what shall I do)?" He said, "Keep away from all those different sects, even if 
you had to bite (i.e. eat) the root of a tree, till you meet Allah while you are still in that state."
Bukhari:3607 Narrated Hudhaifa:My companions learned (something about) good (through asking the Prophet) while I learned 
(something about) evil.
Bukhari:3608 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Day of (Judgment) will not be established till there is a war between two 
groups whose claims (or religion) will be the same."
Bukhari:3609 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till there is a war between two groups among 
whom there will be a great number of casualties, though the claims (or religion) of both of them will 
be one and the same. And the Hour will not be established till there appear about thirty liars, all of 
whom will be claiming to be the messengers of Allah. "
Bukhari:3610 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:While we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was distributing (i.e. some property), there came Dhu-l- 
Khuwaisira, a man from the tribe of Bani Tamim and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do Justice." The 
Prophet said, "Woe to you! Who could do justice if I did not? I would be a desperate loser if I did not 
do justice." `Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop his head off." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave 
him, for he has companions who pray and fast in such a way that you will consider your fasting 
negligible in comparison to theirs. They recite Qur'an but it does not go beyond their throats (i.e. they 
do not act on it) and they will desert Islam as an arrow goes through a victim's body, so that the 
hunter, on looking at the arrow's blade, would see nothing on it; he would look at its Risaf and see 
nothing: he would look at its Na,di and see nothing, and he would look at its Qudhadh ( 1 ) and see 
nothing (neither meat nor blood), for the arrow has been too fast even for the blood and excretions to 
smear. The sign by which they will be recognized is that among them there will be a black man, one 
of whose arms will resemble a woman's breast or a lump of meat moving loosely. Those people will 
appear when there will be differences amongst the people." I testify that I heard this narration from 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I testify that `Ali bin Abi Talib fought with such people, and I was in his 
company. He ordered that the man (described by the Prophet (ﷺ) ) should be looked for. The man was 
brought and I looked at him and noticed that he looked exactly as the Prophet (ﷺ) had described him.
Bukhari:3611 Narrated `Ali:I relate the traditions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to you for I would rather fall from the sky than attribute 
something to him falsely. But when I tell you a thing which is between you and me, then no doubt, 
war is guile. I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "In the last days of this world there will appear some 
young foolish people who will use (in their claim) the best speech of all people (i.e. the Qur'an) and 
they will abandon Islam as an arrow going through the game. Their belief will not go beyond their 
throats (i.e. they will have practically no belief), so wherever you meet them, kill them, for he who 
kills them shall get a reward on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:3612 Narrated Khabbab bin Al-Arat:We complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (of the persecution inflicted on us by the infidels) while he was 
sitting in the shade of the Ka`ba, leaning over his Burd (i.e. covering sheet). We said to him, "Would 
you seek help for us? Would you pray to Allah for us?" He said, "Among the nations before you a 
(believing) man would be put in a ditch that was dug for him, and a saw would be put over his head 
and he would be cut into two pieces; yet that (torture) would not make him give up his religion. His 
body would be combed with iron combs that would remove his flesh from the bones and nerves, yet 
that would not make him abandon his religion. By Allah, this religion (i.e. Islam) will prevail till a 
traveler from Sana (in Yemen) to Hadrarmaut will fear none but Allah, or a wolf as regards his sheep, 
but you (people) are hasty.
Bukhari:3613 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) noticed the absence of Thabit bin Qais. A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I shall bring you 
his news." So he went to him and saw him sitting in his house drooping his head (sadly). He asked 
Thabit, "What's the matter?" Thabit replied, "An evil situation: A man used to raise his voice over the 
voice of the Prophet (ﷺ) and so all his good deeds have been annulled and he is from the people of Hell." 
The man went back and told the Prophet (ﷺ) that Thabit had said so-and-so. (The sub-narrator, Musa bin 
Anas said, "The man went to Thabit again with glad tidings)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Go and say 
to Thabit: 'You are not from the people of Fire, but from the people of Paradise."
Bukhari:3614 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:A man recited Surat-al-Kahf (in his prayer) and in the house there was a (riding) animal which got 
frightened and started jumping. The man finished his prayer with Taslim, but behold! A mist or a 
cloud hovered over him. He informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of that and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O so-and-so! Recite, 
for this (mist or cloud) was a sign of peace descending for the recitation of Qur'an."
Bukhari:3615 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:Abu Bakr came to my father who was at home and purchased a saddle from him. He said to `Azib. 
"Tell your son to carry it with me." So I carried it with him and my father followed us so as to take the 
price (of the saddle). My father said, "O Abu Bakr! Tell me what happened to you on your night 
journey with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (during Migration)." He said, "Yes, we travelled the whole night and also 
the next day till midday. when nobody could be seen on the way ( because of the severe heat) . Then 
there appeared a long rock having shade beneath it, and the sunshine had not come to it yet. So we 
dismounted there and I levelled a place and covered it with an animal hide or dry grass for the Prophet (ﷺ) 
to sleep on (for a while). 
I then said, 'Sleep, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and I will guard you.' So he slept and I went out to guard him. 
Suddenly I saw a shepherd coming with his sheep to that rock with the same intention we had when 
we came to it. I asked (him). 'To whom do you belong, O boy?' He replied, 'I belong to a man from 
Medina or Mecca.' I said, 'Do your sheep have milk?' He said, 'Yes.' I said, 'Will you milk for us?' He 
said, 'Yes.' He caught hold of a sheep and I asked him to clean its teat from dust, hairs and dirt. (The 
sub-narrator said that he saw Al-Bara' striking one of his hands with the other, demonstrating how the 
shepherd removed the dust.) The shepherd milked a little milk in a wooden container and I had a 
leather container which I carried for the Prophet (ﷺ) to drink and perform the ablution from. I went to the 
Prophet, hating to wake him up, but when I reached there, the Prophet (ﷺ) had already awakened; so I 
poured water over the middle part of the milk container, till the milk was cold. Then I said, 'Drink, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!' He drank till I was pleased. 
Then he asked, 'Has the time for our departure come?' I said, 'Yes.' So we departed after midday. 
Suraqa bin Malik followed us and I said, 'We have been discovered, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!' He said, Don't 
grieve for Allah is with us.' The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on him (i.e. Suraqa) and so the legs of his horse 
sank into the earth up to its belly. (The subnarrator, Zuhair is not sure whether Abu Bakr said, "(It 
sank) into solid earth.") Suraqa said, 'I see that you have invoked evil on me. Please invoke good on 
me, and by Allah, I will cause those who are seeking after you to return.' The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked good 
on him and he was saved. Then, whenever he met somebody on the way, he would say, 'I have looked 
for him here in vain.' So he caused whomever he met to return. Thus Suraqa fulfilled his promise."
Bukhari:3616 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) paid a visit to a sick bedouin. The Prophet (ﷺ) when visiting a patient used to say, "No harm 
will befall you! May Allah cure you! May Allah cure you!" So the Prophet (ﷺ) said to the bedouin. "No 
harm will befall you. May Allah cure you!" The bedouin said, "You say, may Allah cure me? No, for 
it is a fever which boils in (the body of) an old man, and will lead him to the grave." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Yes, then may it be as you say."
Bukhari:3617 Narrated Anas:There was a Christian who embraced Islam and read Surat-al-Baqara and Al-`Imran, and he used to 
write for the Prophet. Later on he returned to Christianity again and he used to say: 
"Muhammad knows nothing but what I have written for him." Then Allah caused him to die, and the 
people buried him, but in the morning they saw that the earth had thrown his body out. They said, 
"This is the act of Muhammad and his companions. They dug the grave of our companion and took his 
body out of it because he had run away from them." They again dug the grave deeply for him, but in 
the morning they again saw that the earth had thrown his body out. They said, "This is an act of 
Muhammad and his companions. They dug the grave of our companion and threw his body outside it, 
for he had run away from them." They dug the grave for him as deep as they could, but in the morning 
they again saw that the earth had thrown his body out. So they believed that what had befallen him 
was not done by human beings and had to leave him thrown (on the ground).
Bukhari:3618 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau perishes, there will be no (more) Khosrau after him, and when 
Caesar perishes, there will be no more Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hands Muhammad's life 
is, you will spend the treasures of both of them in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:3619 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau perishes, there will be no more Khosrau a after him, and when 
Caesar perishes, there will be no more Caesar after him," The Prophet (ﷺ) also said, "You will spend the 
treasures of both of them in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:3620 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Musailama-al-Kadhdhab (i.e. the liar) came in the life-time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with many of his people 
(to Medina) and said, "If Muhammad makes me his successor, I will follow him." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
went up to him with Thabit bin Qais bin Shams; and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was carrying a piece of a datepalm 
leaf in his hand. He stood before Musailama (and his companions) and said, "If you asked me 
even this piece (of a leaf), I would not give it to you. You cannot avoid the fate you are destined to, by 
Allah. If you reject Islam, Allah will destroy you. I think that you are most probably the same person 
whom I have seen in the dream." Abu Huraira told me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); said, "While I was 
sleeping, I saw (in a dream) two gold bracelets round my arm, and that worried me too much. Then I 
was instructed divinely in my dream, to blow them off and so I blew them off, and they flew away. I 
interpreted the two bracelets as symbols of two liars who would appear after me. And so one of them 
was Al-Ansi and the other was Musailama Al-Kadhdhab from Al-Yamama."
Bukhari:3621 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Musailama-al-Kadhdhab (i.e. the liar) came in the life-time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with many of his people 
(to Medina) and said, "If Muhammad makes me his successor, I will follow him." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
went up to him with Thabit bin Qais bin Shams; and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was carrying a piece of a datepalm 
leaf in his hand. He stood before Musailama (and his companions) and said, "If you asked me 
even this piece (of a leaf), I would not give it to you. You cannot avoid the fate you are destined to, by 
Allah. If you reject Islam, Allah will destroy you. I think that you are most probably the same person 
whom I have seen in the dream." Abu Huraira told me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); said, "While I was 
sleeping, I saw (in a dream) two gold bracelets round my arm, and that worried me too much. Then I 
was instructed divinely in my dream, to blow them off and so I blew them off, and they flew away. I 
interpreted the two bracelets as symbols of two liars who would appear after me. And so one of them 
was Al-Ansi and the other was Musailama Al-Kadhdhab from Al-Yamama."
Bukhari:3622 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In a dream I saw myself migrating from Mecca to a place having plenty of date 
trees. I thought that it was Al-Yamama or Hajar, but it came to be Medina i.e. Yathrib. In the same 
dream I saw myself moving a sword and its blade got broken. It came to symbolize the defeat which 
the Muslims suffered from, on the Day of Uhud. I moved the sword again, and it became normal as 
before, and that was the symbol of the victory Allah bestowed upon Muslims and their gathering 
together. I saw cows in my dream, and by Allah, that was a blessing, and they symbolized the 
believers on the Day of Uhud. And the blessing was the good Allah bestowed upon us and the reward 
of true belief which Allah gave us after the day of Badr.
Bukhari:3623 Narrated `Aisha:Once Fatima came walking and her gait resembled the gait of the Prophet (ﷺ) . The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Welcome, O my daughter!" Then he made her sit on his right or on his left side, and then he told her 
a secret and she started weeping. I asked her, "Why are you weeping?" He again told her a secret and 
she started laughing. I said, "I never saw happiness so near to sadness as I saw today." I asked her 
what the Prophet (ﷺ) had told her. She said, "I would never disclose the secret of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." When 
the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I asked her about it. She replied. "The Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'Every year Gabriel used to 
revise the Qur'an with me once only, but this year he has done so twice. I think this portends my 
death, and you will be the first of my family to follow me.' So I started weeping. Then he said. 'Don't 
you like to be the chief of all the ladies of Paradise or the chief of the believing women? So I 
laughed for that."
Bukhari:3624 Narrated `Aisha:Once Fatima came walking and her gait resembled the gait of the Prophet (ﷺ) . The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Welcome, O my daughter!" Then he made her sit on his right or on his left side, and then he told her 
a secret and she started weeping. I asked her, "Why are you weeping?" He again told her a secret and 
she started laughing. I said, "I never saw happiness so near to sadness as I saw today." I asked her 
what the Prophet (ﷺ) had told her. She said, "I would never disclose the secret of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." When 
the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I asked her about it. She replied. "The Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'Every year Gabriel used to 
revise the Qur'an with me once only, but this year he has done so twice. I think this portends my 
death, and you will be the first of my family to follow me.' So I started weeping. Then he said. 'Don't 
you like to be the chief of all the ladies of Paradise or the chief of the believing women? So I 
laughed for that."
Bukhari:3625 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) in his fatal illness, called his daughter Fatima and told her a secret because of which she 
started weeping. Then he called her and told her another secret, and she started laughing. When I 
asked her about that, she replied, The Prophet (ﷺ) told me that he would die in his fatal illness, and so I 
wept, but then he secretly told me that from amongst his family, I would be the first to join him, and 
so I laughed."
Bukhari:3626 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) in his fatal illness, called his daughter Fatima and told her a secret because of which she 
started weeping. Then he called her and told her another secret, and she started laughing. When I 
asked her about that, she replied, The Prophet (ﷺ) told me that he would die in his fatal illness, and so I 
wept, but then he secretly told me that from amongst his family, I would be the first to join him, and 
so I laughed."
Bukhari:3627 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:About Ibn `Abbas: `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to treat Ibn `Abbas very favorably `Abdur Rahman bin 
`Auf said to him. "We also have sons that are equal to him (but you are partial to him.)" `Umar said, 
"It is because of his knowledge." Then `Umar asked Ibn `Abbas about the interpretation of the Verse:- 
'When come the Help of Allah and the conquest (of Mecca) (110.1) Ibn `Abbas said. "It portended the 
death of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), which Allah had informed him of." `Umar said, "I do not know from this 
Verse but what you know."
Bukhari:3628 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his fatal illness came out, wrapped with a sheet, and his head was wrapped with an 
oiled bandage. He sat on the pulpit, and praising and glorifying Allah, he said, "Now then, people will 
increase but the Ansar will decrease in number, so much so that they, compared with the people, will 
be just like the salt in the meals. So, if any of you should take over the authority by which he can 
either benefit some people or harm some others, he should accept the goodness of their good people 
(i.e. Ansar) and excuse the faults of their wrong-doers." That was the last gathering which the Prophet (ﷺ) 
attended.
Bukhari:3629 Narrated Abu Bakra:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) brought out Al-Hasan and took him up the pulpit along with him and said, "This son 
of mine is a Saiyid (i.e. chief) and I hope that Allah will help him bring about reconciliation between 
two Muslim groups."
Bukhari:3630 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) had informed us of the death of Ja`far and Zaid before the news of their death reached us, 
and his eyes were shedding tears.
Bukhari:3631 Narrated Jabir:(Once) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got carpets?" I replied, "Whence can we get carpets?" He said, 
"But you shall soon have carpets." I used to say to my wife, "Remove your carpets from my sight," 
but she would say, "Didn't the Prophet (ﷺ) tell you that you would soon have carpets?" So I would give up 
my request.
Bukhari:3632 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:Sa`d bin Mu`adh came to Mecca with the intention of performing `Umra, and stayed at the house of 
Umaiya bin Khalaf Abi Safwan, for Umaiya himself used to stay at Sa`d's house when he passed by 
Medina on his way to Sham. Umaiya said to Sa`d, "Will you wait till midday when the people are (at 
their homes), then you may go and perform the Tawaf round the Ka`ba?" So, while Sa`d was going 
around the Ka`ba, Abu Jahl came and asked, "Who is that who is performing Tawaf?" Sa`d replied, "I 
am Sa`d." Abu Jahl said, "Are you circumambulating the Ka`ba safely although you have given refuge 
to Muhammad and his companions?" Sa`d said, "Yes," and they started quarreling. Umaiya said to 
Sa`d, "Don't shout at Abi-l-Hakam (i.e. Abu Jahl), for he is chief of the valley (of Mecca)." Sa`d then 
said (to Abu Jahl). 'By Allah, if you prevent me from performing the Tawaf of the Ka`ba, I will spoil 
your trade with Sham." Umaiya kept on saying to Sa`d, "Don't raise your voice." and kept on taking 
hold of him. Sa`d became furious and said, (to Umaiya), "Be away from me, for I have heard 
Muhammad saying that he will kill you." Umaiiya said, "Will he kill me?" Sa`d said, "Yes,." Umaiya 
said, "By Allah! When Muhammad says a thing, he never tells a lie." Umaiya went to his wife and 
said to her, "Do you know what my brother from Yathrib (i.e. Medina) has said to me?" She said, 
"What has he said?" He said, "He claims that he has heard Muhammad claiming that he will kill me." 
She said, By Allah! Muhammad never tells a lie." So when the infidels started to proceed for Badr 
(Battle) and declared war (against the Muslims), his wife said to him, "Don't you remember what your 
brother from Yathrib told you?" Umaiya decided not to go but Abu Jahl said to him, "You are from 
the nobles of the valley (of Mecca), so you should accompany us for a day or two." He went with them 
and thus Allah got him killed.
Bukhari:3633 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) the people assembled in a gathering, and then Abu Bakr got 
up and drew one or two buckets of water (from a well) but there was weakness in his drawing. May 
Allah forgive him. Then `Umar took the bucket and in his hands it turned into a very large bucket. I 
had never seen anyone amongst: the people who could draw the water as strongly as `Umar till all the 
people drank their fill and watered their camels that knelt down there.
Bukhari:3634 Narrated Abu `Uthman:I got the news that Gabriel came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while Um Salama was present. Gabriel started talking 
(to the Prophet (ﷺ) and then left. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Um Salama, "(Do you know) who it was?" (or a 
similar question). She said, "It was Dihya (a handsome person amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
)." Later on Um Salama said, "By Allah! I thought he was none but Dihya, till I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) 
talking about Gabriel in his sermon." (The Sub-narrator asked Abu `Uthman, "From where have you 
heard this narration?" He replied, "From Usama bin Zaid.")
Bukhari:3635 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Jews came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him that a man and a woman from amongst them had 
committed illegal sexual intercourse. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "What do you find in the Torah 
(old Testament) about the legal punishment of Ar-Rajm (stoning)?" They replied, (But) we announce 
their crime and lash them." `Abdullah bin Salam said, "You are telling a lie; Torah contains the order 
of Rajm." They brought and opened the Torah and one of them solaced his hand on the Verse of Rajm 
and read the verses preceding and following it. `Abdullah bin Salam said to him, "Lift your hand." 
When he lifted his hand, the Verse of Rajm was written there. They said, "Muhammad has told the 
truth; the Torah has the Verse of Rajm. The Prophet (ﷺ) then gave the order that both of them should be 
stoned to death. (`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "I saw the man leaning over the woman to shelter her 
from the stones."
Bukhari:3636 Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) the moon was split into two parts and on that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Bear witness (to thus).
Bukhari:3637 Narrated Anas:That the Meccan people requested Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to show them a miracle, and so he showed them the 
splitting of the moon.
Bukhari:3638 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The moon was split into two parts during the lifetime of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3639 Narrated Anas:Once two men from the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out of the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a very 
dark night. They were accompanied by two things that resembled two lamps lighting the way in front 
of them, and when they parted, each of them was accompanied by one of those two things (lamps) till 
they reached their homes.
Bukhari:3640 Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some of my followers will remain victorious (and on the right path) till the Last 
Day comes, and they will still be victorious."
Bukhari:3641 Narrated Muawiya:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A group of people amongst my followers will remain obedient to Allah's 
orders and they will not be harmed by anyone who will not help them or who will oppose them, till 
Allah's Order (the Last Day) comes upon them while they are still on the right path."
Bukhari:3642 Narrated `Urwa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him one Dinar so as to buy a sheep for him. `Urwa bought two sheep for him 
with the money. Then he sold one of the sheep for one Dinar, and brought one Dinar and a sheep to 
the Prophet. On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah to bless him in his deals. So `Urwa used to gain (from 
any deal) even if he bought dust. (In another narration) `Urwa said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 
"There is always goodness in horses till the Day of Resurrection." (The subnarrator added, "I saw 70 
horses in `Urwa's house.') (Sufyan said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) asked `Urwa to buy a sheep for him as a 
sacrifice.")
Bukhari:3643 Narrated `Urwa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him one Dinar so as to buy a sheep for him. `Urwa bought two sheep for him 
with the money. Then he sold one of the sheep for one Dinar, and brought one Dinar and a sheep to 
the Prophet. On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah to bless him in his deals. So `Urwa used to gain (from 
any deal) even if he bought dust. (In another narration) `Urwa said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 
"There is always goodness in horses till the Day of Resurrection." (The subnarrator added, "I saw 70 
horses in `Urwa's house.') (Sufyan said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) asked `Urwa to buy a sheep for him as a 
sacrifice.")
Bukhari:3644 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is always goodness in horses till the Day of Resurrection. "
Bukhari:3645 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is always goodness in horses."
Bukhari:3646 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A horse may be kept for one of three purposes: for a man it may be a source of 
reward; for another it may be a means of living; and for a third it may be a burden (a source of 
committing sins). As for the one for whom it is a source of reward, he is the one who keeps his horse 
for the sake of Jihad in Allah's Cause; he ties it with a long rope on a pasture or in a garden. So 
whatever its rope allows it to eat, will be regarded as good rewardable deeds (for its owner). And if it 
breaks off its rope and jumps over one or two hillocks, even its dung will be considered amongst his 
good deeds. And if it passes by a river and drinks water from it, that will be considered as good deeds 
for his benefit) even if he has had no intention of watering it. A horse is a shelter for the one who 
keeps it so that he may earn his living honestly and takes it as a refuge to keep him from following 
illegal ways (of gaining money), and does not forget the rights of Allah (i.e. paying the Zakat and 
allowing others to use it for Allah's Sake). But a horse is a burden (and a source of committing sins for 
him who keeps it out of pride and pretense and with the intention of harming the Muslims." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about donkeys. He replied, "Nothing has been revealed to be concerning them 
except this comprehensive Verse (which covers everything) :--'Then whosoever has done good equal 
to the weight of an atom (or a small ant), Shall see it (its reward) And whosoever has done evil equal 
to the weight of an atom (or a small ) ant), Shall see it (Its punishment)." (99.7-8)
Bukhari:3647 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached Khaibar in the early morning and the people of Khaibar came out with their 
spades, and when they saw the Prophet (ﷺ) they said, "Muhammad and his army!" and returned hurriedly 
to take refuge in the fort. The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands and said, "Allah is Greater! Khaibar is ruined ! 
If we approach a nation, then miserable is the morning of those who are warned."
Bukhari:3648 Narrated Abu Huraira:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I hear many narrations from you but I forget them." He said, "Spread your covering sheet." I spread my sheet and he moved both his hands as if scooping something and emptied them in the sheet and said, "Wrap it." I wrapped it round my body, and since then I have never forgotten.
Bukhari:3649 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A time will come upon the people, when a group of people will wage a holy 
war and it will be said, 'Is there amongst you anyone who has accompanied Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' They 
will say, 'Yes.' And so victory will be bestowed on them. Then a time will come upon the people when 
a group of people will wage a holy war, and it will be said, "Is there amongst you anynone who has 
accompanied the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' They will say, 'Yes.' And so victory will be 
bestowed on them. Then a time will come upon the people when a group of people will wage a holy 
war, and it will be said, "Is there amongst you anyone who has been in the company of the 
companions of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?' They will say, 'Yes.' And victory will be 
bestowed on them."
Bukhari:3650 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The best of my followers are those living in my generation (i.e. my 
contemporaries). and then those who will follow the latter" `Imran added, "I do not remember whether 
he mentioned two or three generations after his generation, then the Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'There will come 
after you, people who will bear witness without being asked to do so, and will be treacherous and 
untrustworthy, and they will vow and never fulfill their vows, and fatness will appear among them."
Bukhari:3651 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best people are those living in my generation, and then those who will follow 
them, and then those who will follow the latter. Then there will come some people who will bear 
witness before taking oaths, and take oaths before bearing witness." (Ibrahim, a sub-narrator said, 
"They used to beat us for witnesses and covenants when we were still children.")
Bukhari:3652 Narrated Al-Bara':Abu Bakr bought a (camel) saddle from `Azib for thirteen Dirhams. Abu Bakr said to `Azib, "Tell Al- 
Bara' to carry the saddle for me." `Azib said, "No, unless you relate to me what happened to you and 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when you left Mecca while the pagans were in search of you." Abu Bakr said, "We 
left Mecca and we traveled continuously for that night and the following day till it was midday. I 
looked (around) searching for shade to take as shelter, and suddenly I came across a rock, and found a 
little shade there. So I cleaned the place and spread a bed for the Prophet (ﷺ) in the shade and said to him, 
'Lie down, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' So the Prophet (ﷺ) lay down and I went out, looking around to see if there 
was any person pursuing us. Suddenly I saw a shepherd driving his sheep towards the rock, seeking 
what we had already sought from it. I asked him, 'To whom do you belong, O boy?' He said, 'I belong 
to a man from Quraish.' He named the man and I recognized him. I asked him, 'Is there any milk with 
your sheep?' He said, 'Yes.' I said, 'Will you then milk (some) for us?' He said, 'Yes.' Then I asked him 
to tie the legs of one of the sheep and clean its udder, and then ordered him to clean his hands from 
dust. Then the shepherd cleaned his hands by striking his hands against one another. After doing so, 
he milked a small amount of milk. I used to keep for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a leather water-container, the 
mouth of which was covered with a piece of cloth. I poured water on the milk container till its lower 
part was cold. Then I took the milk to the Prophet (ﷺ) whom I found awake. I said to him, 'Drink, O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' So he drank till I became pleased. Then I said, 'It is time for us to move, O Allah's 
Apostle!' He said, 'Yes.' So we set out while the people (i.e. Quraish pagans) were searching for us, 
but none found us except Suraqah bin Malik bin Ju`shum who was riding his horse. I said, 'These are 
our pursuers who have found us. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!' He said, 'Do not grieve, for Allah is with us."
Bukhari:3653 Narrated Abu Bakr:I said to the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was in the Cave. "If any of them should look under his feet, he would see 
us." He said, "O Abu Bakr! What do you think of two (persons) the third of whom is Allah?"
Bukhari:3654 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed the people saying, "Allah has given option to a slave to choose this world or 
what is with Him. The slave has chosen what is with Allah." Abu Bakr wept, and we were astonished 
at his weeping caused by what the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned as to a Slave ( of Allah) who had been offered a 
choice, (we learned later on) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) himself was the person who was given the choice, 
and that Abu Bakr knew best of all of us. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "The person who has favored me 
most of all both with his company and wealth, is Abu Bakr. If I were to take a Khalil other than my 
Lord, I would have taken Abu Bakr as such, but (what relates us) is the Islamic brotherhood and 
friendliness. All the gates of the Mosque should be closed except the gate of Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:3655 Narrated Ibn `Umar:We used to compare the people as to who was better during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . We used 
to regard Abu Bakr as the best, then `Umar, and then `Uthman .
Bukhari:3656 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I were to take a Khalil, I would have taken Abu Bakr, but he is my brother and 
my companion (in Islam).
Bukhari:3657 Narrated Aiyub:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I were to take a Khalil, I would have taken him (i.e. Abu Bakr) as a Khalil, but 
the Islamic brotherhood is better."
Bukhari:3658 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Mulaika:The people of Kufa sent a letter to Ibn Az-Zubair, asking about (the inheritance of) (paternal) 
grandfather. He replied that the right of the inheritance of (paternal) grandfather is the same as that of 
father if the father is dead) and added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, ' If I were to take a Khalil from this 
nation, I would have taken him (i.e. Abu Bakr).
Bukhari:3659 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) who ordered her to return to him again. She said, "What if I came and 
did not find you?" as if she wanted to say, "If I found you dead?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you should not 
find me, go to Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:3660 Narrated `Ammar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and there was none with him but five slaves, two women and Abu Bakr (i.e. 
those were the only converts to Islam then).
Bukhari:3661 Narrated Abu Ad-Darda:While I was sitting with the Prophet, Abu Bakr came, lifting up one corner of his garment uncovering 
his knee. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your companion has had a quarrel." Abu Bakr greeted (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) and 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! There was something (i.e. quarrel) between me and the Son of Al-Khattab. I 
talked to him harshly and then regretted that, and requested him to forgive me, but he refused. This is 
why I have come to you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "O Abu Bakr! May Allah forgive you." In the 
meanwhile, `Umar regretted (his refusal of Abu Bakr's excuse) and went to Abu Bakr's house and 
asked if Abu Bakr was there. They replied in the negative. So he came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and greeted him, 
but signs of displeasure appeared on the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) till Abu Bakr pitied (`Umar), so he knelt 
and said twice, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah! I was more unjust to him (than he to me)." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "Allah sent me (as a Prophet) to you (people) but you said (to me), 'You are telling a lie,' while 
Abu Bakr said, 'He has said the truth,' and consoled me with himself and his money." He then said 
twice, "Won't you then give up harming my companion?" After that nobody harmed Abu Bakr.
Bukhari:3662 Narrated `Amr bin Al-As:The Prophet (ﷺ) deputed me to read the Army of Dhat-as-Salasil. I came to him and said, "Who is the 
most beloved person to you?" He said, " `Aisha." I asked, "Among the men?" He said, "Her father." I 
said, "Who then?" He said, "Then `Umar bin Al-Khattab." He then named other men.
Bukhari:3663 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While a shepherd was amongst his sheep, a wolf attacked them and 
took away one sheep. When the shepherd chased the wolf, the wolf turned towards him and said, 
'Who will be its guard on the day of wild animals when nobody except I will be its shepherd. And 
while a man was driving a cow with a load on it, it turned towards him and spoke to him saying, 'I 
have not been created for this purpose, but for ploughing." The people said, "Glorified be Allah." The 
Prophet said, "But I believe in it and so does Abu Bakr end `Umar."
Bukhari:3664 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself standing at a well, on it there was 
a bucket. I drew water from the well as much as Allah wished. Then Ibn Abi Quhafa (i.e. Abu Bakr) 
took the bucket from me and brought out one or two buckets (of water) and there was weakness in his 
drawing the water. May Allah forgive his weakness for him. Then the bucket turned into a very big 
one and Ibn Al-Khattab took it over and I had never seen such a mighty person amongst the people as 
him in performing such hard work, till the people drank to their satisfaction and watered their camels 
that knelt down there."
Bukhari:3665 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not look on the Day of Judgment at him who drags his robe 
(behind him) out of pride." Abu Bakr said "One side of my robe slacks down unless I get very 
cautious about it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "But you do not do that with a pride."
Bukhari:3666 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Anybody who spends a pair of something in Allah's Cause will be 
called from all the gates of Paradise, "O Allah's slave! This is good.' He who is amongst those who 
pray will be called from the gate of the prayer (in Paradise) and he who is from the people of Jihad 
will be called from the gate of Jihad, and he who is from those' who give in charity (i.e. Zakat) will be 
called from the gate of charity, and he who is amongst those who observe fast will be called from the 
gate of fasting, the gate of Raiyan." Abu Bakr said, "He who is called from all those gates will need 
nothing," He added, "Will anyone be called from all those gates, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Yes, 
and I hope you will be among those, O Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:3667 Narrated 'Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died while Abu Bakr was at a place called As-Sunah (Al-'Aliya) 'Umar stood up and said, "By Allah! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is not dead!" 'Umar (later on) said, "By Allah! Nothing occurred to my mind except that." He said, "Verily! Allah will resurrect him and he will cut the hands and legs of some men." Then Abu Bakr came and uncovered the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), kissed him and said, "Let my mother and father be sacrificed for you, (O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)), you are good in life and in death. By Allah in Whose Hands my life is, Allah will never make you taste death twice." Then he went out and said, "O oath-taker! Don't be hasty." When Abu Bakr spoke, 'Umar sat down. Abu Bakr praised and glorified Allah and said, No doubt! Whoever worshipped Muhammad, then Muhammad is dead, but whoever worshipped Allah, then Allah is Alive and shall never die." Then he recited Allah's Statement.:-- "(O Muhammad) Verily you will die, and they also will die." (39.30) He also recited:--"Muhammad is no more than an Apostle; and indeed many Apostles have passed away, before him, If he dies Or is killed, will you then Turn back on your heels? And he who turns back On his heels, not the least Harm will he do to Allah And Allah will give reward to those Who are grateful." (3.144)The people wept loudly, and the Ansar were assembled with Sad bin 'Ubada in the shed of Bani Saida. They said (to the emigrants). "There should be one 'Amir from us and one from you." Then Abu Bakr, Umar bin Al-Khattab and Abu 'baida bin Al-Jarrah went to them. 'Umar wanted to speak but Abu Bakr stopped him. 'Umar later on used to say, "By Allah, I intended only to say something that appealed to me and I was afraid that Abu Bakr would not speak so well. Then Abu Bakr spoke and his speech was very eloquent. He said in his statement, "We are the rulers and you (Ansars) are the ministers (i.e. advisers)," Hubab bin Al-Mundhir said, "No, by Allah we won't accept this. But there must be a ruler from us and a ruler from you." Abu Bakr said, "No, we will be the rulers and you will be the ministers, for they (i.e. Quarish) are the best family amongst the 'Arabs and of best origin. So you should elect either 'Umar or Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah as your ruler." 'Umar said (to Abu Bakr), "No but we elect you, for you are our chief and the best amongst us and the most beloved of all of us to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." So 'Umar took Abu Bakr's hand and gave the pledge of allegiance and the people too gave the pledge of allegiance to Abu Bakr. Someone said, "You have killed Sad bin Ubada." 'Umar said, "Allah has killed him."
Bukhari:3668 Narrated 'Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died while Abu Bakr was at a place called As-Sunah (Al-'Aliya) 'Umar stood up and said, "By Allah! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is not dead!" 'Umar (later on) said, "By Allah! Nothing occurred to my mind except that." He said, "Verily! Allah will resurrect him and he will cut the hands and legs of some men." Then Abu Bakr came and uncovered the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), kissed him and said, "Let my mother and father be sacrificed for you, (O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)), you are good in life and in death. By Allah in Whose Hands my life is, Allah will never make you taste death twice." Then he went out and said, "O oath-taker! Don't be hasty." When Abu Bakr spoke, 'Umar sat down. Abu Bakr praised and glorified Allah and said, No doubt! Whoever worshipped Muhammad, then Muhammad is dead, but whoever worshipped Allah, then Allah is Alive and shall never die." Then he recited Allah's Statement.:-- "(O Muhammad) Verily you will die, and they also will die." (39.30) He also recited:--"Muhammad is no more than an Apostle; and indeed many Apostles have passed away, before him, If he dies Or is killed, will you then Turn back on your heels? And he who turns back On his heels, not the least Harm will he do to Allah And Allah will give reward to those Who are grateful." (3.144)The people wept loudly, and the Ansar were assembled with Sad bin 'Ubada in the shed of Bani Saida. They said (to the emigrants). "There should be one 'Amir from us and one from you." Then Abu Bakr, Umar bin Al-Khattab and Abu 'baida bin Al-Jarrah went to them. 'Umar wanted to speak but Abu Bakr stopped him. 'Umar later on used to say, "By Allah, I intended only to say something that appealed to me and I was afraid that Abu Bakr would not speak so well. Then Abu Bakr spoke and his speech was very eloquent. He said in his statement, "We are the rulers and you (Ansars) are the ministers (i.e. advisers)," Hubab bin Al-Mundhir said, "No, by Allah we won't accept this. But there must be a ruler from us and a ruler from you." Abu Bakr said, "No, we will be the rulers and you will be the ministers, for they (i.e. Quarish) are the best family amongst the 'Arabs and of best origin. So you should elect either 'Umar or Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah as your ruler." 'Umar said (to Abu Bakr), "No but we elect you, for you are our chief and the best amongst us and the most beloved of all of us to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." So 'Umar took Abu Bakr's hand and gave the pledge of allegiance and the people too gave the pledge of allegiance to Abu Bakr. Someone said, "You have killed Sad bin Ubada." 'Umar said, "Allah has killed him."
Bukhari:3669 'Aisha said (in another narration), ("When the Prophet (ﷺ) was on his death-bed) he looked up and said thrice, (Amongst) the Highest Companion (See Qur'an 4.69)' Aisha said, Allah benefited the people by their two speeches. 'Umar frightened the people some of whom were hypocrites whom Allah caused to abandon Islam because of 'Umar's speech. Then Abu Bakr led the people to True Guidance and acquainted them with the right path they were to follow so that they went out reciting:-- "Muhammad is no more than an Apostle and indeed many Apostles have passed away before him.." (3.144)
Bukhari:3670 'Aisha said (in another narration), ("When the Prophet (ﷺ) was on his death-bed) he looked up and said thrice, (Amongst) the Highest Companion (See Qur'an 4.69)' Aisha said, Allah benefited the people by their two speeches. 'Umar frightened the people some of whom were hypocrites whom Allah caused to abandon Islam because of 'Umar's speech. Then Abu Bakr led the people to True Guidance and acquainted them with the right path they were to follow so that they went out reciting:-- "Muhammad is no more than an Apostle and indeed many Apostles have passed away before him.." (3.144)
Bukhari:3671 Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Hanafiya:I asked my father (`Ali bin Abi Talib), "Who are the best people after Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" He said, 
"Abu Bakr." I asked, "Who then?" He said, "Then `Umar. " I was afraid he would say "Uthman, so I 
said, "Then you?" He said, "I am only an ordinary person.
Bukhari:3672 Narrated `Aisha:We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of his journeys till we reached Al-Baida or Dhatul-Jaish 
where my necklace got broken (and lost). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stopped to search for it and the people too 
stopped with him. There was no water at that place and they had no water with them. So they went to 
Abu Bakr and said, "Don't you see what `Aisha has done? She has made Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the 
people stop where there is no water and they have no water with them. Abu Bakr came while Allah's 
Apostle was sleeping with his head on my thigh and said, "You detained Allah Apostle and the people 
where there is no water and they have no water." He then admonished me and said what Allah wished 
and pinched me at my flanks with his hands, but I did not move because the head of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
was on my thigh . 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on sleeping till be got up in the morning and found no water. Then Allah revealed 
the Divine Verse of Tayammum, and the people performed Tayammum. Usaid bin AlHudair said. "O 
family of Abu Bakr! This is not the first blessings of yours." We urged the camel on which I was 
sitting to get up from its place and the necklace was found under it.
Bukhari:3673 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not abuse my companions for if any one of you spent gold equal to Uhud (in 
Allah's Cause) it would not be equal to a Mud or even a half Mud spent by one of them."
Bukhari:3674 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:I performed ablution in my house and then went out and said, "Today I shall stick to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and stay with him all this day of mine (in his service)." I went to the Mosque and asked about the 
Prophet . They said, "He had gone in this direction." So I followed his way, asking about him till he 
entered a place called Bir Aris. I sat at its gate that was made of date-palm leaves till the Prophet (ﷺ) 
finished answering the call of nature and performed ablution. Then I went up to him to see him sitting 
at the well of Aris at the middle of its edge with his legs uncovered, hanging in the well. I greeted him 
and went back and sat at the gate. I said, "Today I will be the gatekeeper of the Prophet." Abu Bakr 
came and pushed the gate. I asked, "Who is it?" He said, "Abu Bakr." 
I told him to wait, went in and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Abu Bakr asks for permission to enter." He 
said, "Admit him and give him the glad tidings that he will be in Paradise." So I went out and said to 
Abu Bakr, "Come in, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gives you the glad tidings that you will be in Paradise" Abu 
Bakr entered and sat on the right side of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the built edge of the well and hung his legs 
n the well as the Prophet (ﷺ) did and uncovered his legs. I then returned and sat (at the gate). I had left my 
brother performing ablution and he intended to follow me. So I said (to myself). "If Allah wants good 
for so-and-so (i.e. my brother) He will bring him here." 
Suddenly somebody moved the door. I asked, "Who is it?" He said, "`Umar bin Al-Khattab." I asked 
him to wait, went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), greeted him and said, `Umar bin Al-Khattab asks the permission 
to enter." He said, "Admit him, and give him the glad tidings that he will be in Paradise." I went to 
"`Umar and said "Come in, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), gives you the glad tidings that you will be in 
Paradise." So he entered and sat beside Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the built edge of the well on the left side 
and hung his legs in the well. I returned and sat (at the gate) and said, (to myself), "If Allah wants 
good for so-and-so, He will bring him here." Somebody came and moved the door. I asked "Who is 
it?" He replied, "Uthman bin `Affan." I asked him to wait and went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him. 
He said, "Admit him, and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise, I asked him to wait and went 
to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him. He said, "Adult him, and give him the glad tidings of entering 
Paradise after a calamity that will befall him." So I went up to him and said to him, "Come in; Allah's 
Apostle gives you the glad tidings of entering Paradise after a calamity that will befall you. "Uthman 
then came in and found that the built edge of the well was occupied, so he sat opposite to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
on the other side. Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab said, "I interpret this (narration) in terms of their graves."
Bukhari:3675 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) once climbed the mountain of Uhud with Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman. The mountain 
shook with them. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the mountain), "Be firm, O Uhud! For on you there are no more 
than a Prophet, a Siddiq and two martyrs.
Bukhari:3676 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. "While (in a dream), I was standing by a well, drawing water from it. Abu Bakr 
and `Umar came to me. Abu Bakr took the bucket (from me) and drew one or two buckets of water, 
and there was some weakness in his drawing. May Allah forgive him. Then Ibn Al-Khattab took the 
bucket from Abu Bakr, and the bucket turned into a very large one in his hands. I had never seen such 
a mighty person amongst the people as him in performing such hard work. He drew so much water 
that the people drank to their satisfaction and watered their camels." (Wahab, a sub-narrator said, "till 
their camels drank and knelt down.")
Bukhari:3677 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While I was standing amongst the people who were invoking Allah for `Umar bin Al-Khattab who 
was lying (dead) on his bed, a man behind me rested his elbows on my shoulder and said, "(O `Umar!) 
May Allah bestow His Mercy on you. I always hoped that Allah will keep you with your two 
companions, for I often heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "I, Abu Bakr and `Umar were (somewhere). I, 
Abu Bakr and `Umar did (something). I, Abu Bakr and `Umar set out.' So I hoped that Allah will keep 
you with both of them." I turned back to see that the speaker was `Ali bin Abi Talib.
Bukhari:3678 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:I asked `Abdullah bin `Amr, "What was the worst thing the pagans did to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "I 
saw `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait coming to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was praying.' `Uqba put his sheet round the 
Prophet's neck and squeezed it very severely. Abu Bakr came and pulled `Uqba away from the 
Prophet and said, "Do you intend to kill a man just because he says: 'My Lord is Allah, and he has 
brought forth to you the Evident Signs from your Lord?"
Bukhari:3679 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw myself (in a dream) entering Paradise, and behold! I saw Ar-Rumaisa', Abu 
Talha's wife. I heard footsteps. I asked, Who is it? Somebody said, 'It is Bilal ' Then I saw a palace 
and a lady sitting in its courtyard. I asked, 'For whom is this palace?' Somebody replied, 'It is for 
`Umar.' I intended to enter it and see it, but I thought of your (`Umar's) Ghira (and gave up the 
attempt)." `Umar said, "Let my parents be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How dare I think of 
my Ghira (self-respect) being offended by you?
Bukhari:3680 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself in Paradise, and 
suddenly I saw a woman performing ablution beside a palace. I asked, 'For whom is this palace?' They 
replied, 'It is for `Umar.' Then I remembered `Umar's Ghira (self-respect) and went away quickly." 
`Umar wept and said, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How dare I think of my ghira (self-respect) being offended 
by you?
Bukhari:3681 Narrated Hamza's father:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself drinking (i.e. milk), and I was so contented 
that I saw the milk flowing through my nails. Then I gave (the milk) to `Umar." They (i.e. the 
companions of the Prophet) asked, "What do you interpret it?" He said, "Knowledge."
Bukhari:3682 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In a dream I saw myself drawing water from a well with a bucket. Abu Bakr came 
and drew a bucket or two weakly. May Allah forgive him. Then `Umar bin Al-Khattab came and the 
bucket turned into a very large one in his hands. I had never seen such a mighty person as he in doing 
such hard work till all the people drank to their satisfaction and watered their camels that knelt down 
there.
Bukhari:3683 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:`Umar bin Al-Khattab asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to see him while some Quraishi women 
were sitting with him, talking to him and asking him for more expenses, raising their voices above the 
voice of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
When `Umar asked for the permission to enter, the women quickly put on their veils. Allah'sf Apostle 
allowed him to enter and `Umar came in while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was smiling, `Umar said "O Allah's 
Apostle! May Allah always keep you smiling." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "These women who have been here, 
roused my wonder, for as soon as they heard your voice, they quickly put on their veils. "`Umar said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have more right to be feared by them than I." Then `Umar addressed the 
women saying, "O enemies of yourselves! You fear me more than you do Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" They 
said, "Yes, for you are harsher and sterner than Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Ibn 
Al-Khattab! By Him in Whose Hands my life is! Never does Satan find you going on a way, but he 
takes another way other than yours."
Bukhari:3684 Narrated `Abdullah:We have been powerful since `Umar embraced Islam.
Bukhari:3685 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When (the dead body of) `Umar was put on his deathbed, the people gathered around him and invoked 
(Allah) and prayed for him before the body was taken away, and I was amongst them. Suddenly I felt 
somebody taking hold of my shoulder and found out that he was `Ali bin Abi Talib. `Ali invoked 
Allah's Mercy for `Umar and said, "O `Umar! You have not left behind you a person whose deeds I 
like to imitate and meet Allah with more than I like your deeds. By Allah! I always thought that Allah 
would keep you with your two companions, for very often I used to hear the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'I, Abu 
Bakr and `Umar went (somewhere); I, Abu Bakr and `Umar entered (somewhere); and I, Abu Bakr 
and `Umar went out."'
Bukhari:3686 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) ascended the mountain of Uhud and he was accompanied by Abu Bakr, `Umar and 
`Uthman. The mountain shook beneath them. The Prophet (ﷺ) hit it with his foot and said, "O Uhud ! Be 
firm, for on you there is none but a Prophet, a Siddiq and a martyr (i.e. and two martyrs).
Bukhari:3687 Narrated Aslam:Ibn `Umar asked me about some matters concerning `Umar. He said, "Since Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died. I 
have never seen anybody more serious, hard working and generous than `Umar bin Al-Khattab (till 
the end of his life."
Bukhari:3688 Narrated Anas:A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the Hour (i.e. Day of Judgment) saying, "When will the Hour be?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What have you prepared for it?" The man said, "Nothing, except that I love Allah 
and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with those whom you love." We had never been so 
glad as we were on hearing that saying of the Prophet (i.e., "You will be with those whom you love.") 
Therefore, I love the Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar, and I hope that I will be with them because of my 
love for them though my deeds are not similar to theirs.
Bukhari:3689 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Among the nations before you there used to be people who were inspired (though they were not prophets). And if there is any of such a persons amongst my followers, it is 'Umar."Narrated Abu Huraira: 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Among the nation of Bani Israel who lived before you, there were men who used to be inspired with guidance though they were not prophets, and if there is any of such persons amongst my followers, it is 'Umar."
Bukhari:3690 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whilst a shepherd was amongst his sheep, a wolf attacked them and took away 
a sheep. The shepherd chased it and got that sheep freed from the wolf. The wolf turned towards the 
shepherd and said, 'Who will guard the sheep on the day of wild animals when it will have no 
shepherd except myself?" The people said, "Glorified be Allah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But I believe in it 
and so do Abu Bakr and `Umar although Abu Bakr and `Umar were not present there (at the place of 
the event).
Bukhari:3691 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, the people were presented to me (in a dream). 
They were wearing shirts, some of which were merely covering their (chests). and some were a bit 
longer. `Umar was presented before me and his shirt was so long that he was dragging it." They asked, 
"How have you interpreted it, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Religion."
Bukhari:3692 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:When `Umar was stabbed, he showed signs of agony. Ibn `Abbas, as if intending to encourage `Umar, 
said to him, "O Chief of the believers! Never mind what has happened to you, for you have been in 
the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and you kept good relations with him and you parted with him while 
he was pleased with you. Then you were in the company of Abu Bakr and kept good relations with 
him and you parted with him (i.e. he died) while he was pleased with you. Then you were in the 
company of the Muslims, and you kept good relations with them, and if you leave them, you will 
leave them while they are pleased with you." `Umar said, (to Ibn "Abbas), "As for what you have said 
about the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his being pleased with me, it is a favor, Allah did to me; 
and as for what you have said about the company of Abu Bakr and his being pleased with me, it is a 
favor Allah did to me; and concerning my impatience which you see, is because of you and your 
companions. By Allah! If (at all) I had gold equal to the earth, I would have ransomed myself with it 
from the Punishment of Allah before I meet Him."
Bukhari:3693 Narrated Abu Musa:While I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) in one of the gardens of Medina, a man came and asked me to open the 
gate. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings that he will enter 
Paradise." I opened (the gate) for him, and behold! It was Abu Bakr. I informed him of the glad 
tidings the Prophet (ﷺ) had said, and he praised Allah. Then another man came and asked me to open the 
gate. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me "Open (the gate) and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise." I 
opened (the gate) for him, and behold! It was `Umar. I informed him of what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said, and 
he praised Allah. Then another man came and asked me to open the gate. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me. 
"Open (the gate) for him and inform him of the glad tidings, of entering Paradise with a calamity 
which will befall him. " Behold ! It was `Uthman, I informed him of what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said. 
He praised Allah and said, "I seek Allah's Aid."
Bukhari:3694 Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was holding `Umar bin Al-Khattab by the hand.
Bukhari:3695 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered a garden and ordered me to guard its gate. A man came and asked permission to 
enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise." Behold! It 
was Abu Bakr. Another man came and asked the permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him 
and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise." Behold! It was `Umar. Then another man came, 
asking the permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept silent for a short while and then said, "Admit him 
and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise with a calamity which will befall him." Behold! It 
was `Uthman bin `Affan. `Asim, in another narration, said that the Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting in a place 
where there was water, and he was uncovering both his knees or his knee, and when `Uthman entered, 
he covered them (or it).
Bukhari:3696 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Adi bin Al-Khiyar:Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth said (to me), "What 
forbids you to talk to `Uthman about his brother Al-Walid because people have talked much about 
him?" So I went to `Uthman and when he went out for prayer I said (to him), "I have something to say 
to you and it is a piece of advice for you " `Uthman said, "O man, from you." (`Umar said: I see that 
he said, "I seek Refuge with Allah from you.") So I left him and went to them. Then the messenger of 
`Uthman came and I went to him (i.e. `Uthman), `Uthman asked, "What is your advice?" I replied, 
"Allah sent Muhammad with the Truth, and revealed the Divine Book (i.e. Qur'an) to him; and you 
were amongst those who followed Allah and His Apostle, and you participated in the two migrations 
(to Ethiopia and to Medina) and enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and saw his way. No doubt, 
the people are talking much about Al-Walid." `Uthman said, "Did you receive your knowledge 
directly from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" I said, "No, but his knowledge did reach me and it reached (even) to a 
virgin in her seclusion." `Uthman said, "And then Allah sent Muhammad with the Truth and I was 
amongst those who followed Allah and His Apostle and I believed in what ever he (i.e. the Prophet) 
was sent with, and participated in two migrations, as you have said, and I enjoyed the company of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and gave the pledge of allegiance him. By Allah! I never disobeyed him, nor did I 
cheat him till Allah took him unto Him. Then I treated Abu Bakr and then `Umar similarly and then I 
was made Caliph. So, don't I have rights similar to theirs?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Then what are 
these talks reaching me from you people? Now, concerning what you mentioned about the question of 
Al-Walid, Allah willing, I shall deal with him according to what is right." Then he called `Ali and 
ordered him to flog him, and `Ali flogged him (i.e. Al-Walid) eighty lashes.
Bukhari:3697 Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we considered Abu Bakr as peerless and then `Umar and then 
`Uthman (coming next to him in superiority) and then we used not to differentiate between the 
companions of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3698 Narrated `Uthman:(the son of Muhib) An Egyptian who came and performed the Hajj to the Ka`ba saw some people 
sitting. He enquire, "Who are these people?" Somebody said, "They are the tribe of Quraish." He said, 
"Who is the old man sitting amongst them?" The people replied, "He is `Abdullah bin `Umar." He 
said, "O Ibn `Umar! I want to ask you about something; please tell me about it. Do you know that 
`Uthman fled away on the day (of the battle) of Uhud?" Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." The (Egyptian) man 
said, "Do you know that `Uthman was absent on the day (of the battle) of Badr and did not join it?" 
Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." The man said, "Do you know that he failed to attend the Ar Ridwan pledge and 
did not witness it (i.e. Hudaibiya pledge of allegiance)?" Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." The man said, 
"Allahu Akbar!" Ibn `Umar said, "Let me explain to you (all these three things). As for his flight on 
the day of Uhud, I testify that Allah has excused him and forgiven him; and as for his absence from 
the battle of Badr, it was due to the fact that the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was his wife and she was 
sick then. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "You will receive the same reward and share (of the booty) as 
anyone of those who participated in the battle of Badr (if you stay with her).' As for his absence from 
the Ar-Ridwan pledge of allegiance, had there been any person in Mecca more respectable than 
`Uthman (to be sent as a representative). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would have sent him instead of him. No 
doubt, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had sent him, and the incident of the Ar-Ridwan pledge of Allegiance 
happened after `Uthman had gone to Mecca. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) held out his right hand saying, 'This is 
`Uthman's hand.' He stroke his (other) hand with it saying, 'This (pledge of allegiance) is on the behalf 
of `Uthman.' Then Ibn `Umar said to the man, 'Bear (these) excuses in mind with you.'
Bukhari:3699 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) ascended the mountain of Uhud and Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman were accompanying 
him. The mountain gave a shake (i.e. trembled underneath them) . The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Uhud ! Be 
calm." I think that the Prophet (ﷺ) hit it with his foot, adding, "For upon you there are none but a Prophet, 
a Siddiq and two martyrs."
Bukhari:3700 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:I saw `Umar bin Al-Khattab a few days before he was stabbed in Medina. He was standing with 
Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman and `Uthman bin Hunaif to whom he said, "What have you done? Do you 
think that you have imposed more taxation on the land (of As-Swad i.e. 'Iraq) than it can bear?" They 
replied, "We have imposed on it what it can bear because of its great yield." `Umar again said, "Check 
whether you have imposed on the land what it can not bear." They said, "No, (we haven't)." `Umar 
added, "If Allah should keep me alive I will let the widows of Iraq need no men to support them after 
me." But only four days had elapsed when he was stabbed (to death ). The day he was stabbed, I was 
standing and there was nobody between me and him (i.e. `Umar) except `Abdullah bin `Abbas. 
Whenever `Umar passed between the two rows, he would say, "Stand in straight lines." 
When he saw no defect (in the rows), he would go forward and start the prayer with Takbir. He would 
recite Surat Yusuf or An-Nahl or the like in the first rak`a so that the people may have the time to Join 
the prayer. As soon as he said Takbir, I heard him saying, "The dog has killed or eaten me," at the 
time he (i.e. the murderer) stabbed him. A non-Arab infidel proceeded on carrying a double-edged 
knife and stabbing all the persons he passed by on the right and left (till) he stabbed thirteen persons 
out of whom seven died. When one of the Muslims saw that, he threw a cloak on him. Realizing that 
he had been captured, the non-Arab infidel killed himself, `Umar held the hand of `Abdur-Rahman bin 
`Auf and let him lead the prayer. 
Those who were standing by the side of `Umar saw what I saw, but the people who were in the other 
parts of the Mosque did not see anything, but they lost the voice of `Umar and they were saying, 
"Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! (i.e. Glorified be Allah)." `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf led the people a 
short prayer. When they finished the prayer, `Umar said, "O Ibn `Abbas! Find out who attacked me." 
Ibn `Abbas kept on looking here and there for a short time and came to say. "The slave of Al 
Mughira." On that `Umar said, "The craftsman?" Ibn `Abbas said, "Yes." `Umar said, "May Allah 
curse him. I did not treat him unjustly. All the Praises are for Allah Who has not caused me to die at 
the hand of a man who claims himself to be a Muslim. No doubt, you and your father (Abbas) used to 
love to have more non-Arab infidels in Medina." Al-Abbas had the greatest number of slaves. Ibn 
`Abbas said to `Umar. "If you wish, we will do." He meant, "If you wish we will kill them." `Umar 
said, "You are mistaken (for you can't kill them) after they have spoken your language, prayed 
towards your Qibla, and performed Hajj like yours." 
Then `Umar was carried to his house, and we went along with him, and the people were as if they had 
never suffered a calamity before. Some said, "Do not worry (he will be Alright soon)." Some said, 
"We are afraid (that he will die)." Then an infusion of dates was brought to him and he drank it but it 
came out (of the wound) of his belly. Then milk was brought to him and he drank it, and it also came 
out of his belly. The people realized that he would die. We went to him, and the people came, praising 
him. A young man came saying, "O chief of the believers! Receive the glad tidings from Allah to you 
due to your company with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and your superiority in Islam which you know. Then you 
became the ruler (i.e. Caliph) and you ruled with justice and finally you have been martyred." `Umar 
said, "I wish that all these privileges will counterbalance (my shortcomings) so that I will neither lose 
nor gain anything." 
When the young man turned back to leave, his clothes seemed to be touching the ground. `Umar said, 
"Call the young man back to me." (When he came back) `Umar said, "O son of my brother! Lift your 
clothes, for this will keep your clothes clean and save you from the Punishment of your Lord." `Umar 
further said, "O `Abdullah bin `Umar! See how much I am in debt to others." When the debt was 
checked, it amounted to approximately eighty-six thousand. `Umar said, "If the property of `Umar's 
family covers the debt, then pay the debt thereof; otherwise request it from Bani `Adi bin Ka`b, and if 
that too is not sufficient, ask for it from Quraish tribe, and do not ask for it from any one else, and pay 
this debt on my behalf." 
`Umar then said (to `Abdullah), "Go to `Aisha (the mother of the believers) and say: "`Umar is paying 
his salutation to you. But don't say: 'The chief of the believers,' because today I am not the chief of the 
believers. And say: "`Umar bin Al-Khattab asks the permission to be buried with his two companions 
(i.e. the Prophet, and Abu Bakr)." `Abdullah greeted `Aisha and asked for the permission for entering, 
and then entered to her and found her sitting and weeping. He said to her, "`Umar bin Al-Khattab is 
paying his salutations to you, and asks the permission to be buried with his two companions." She 
said, "I had the idea of having this place for myself, but today I prefer `Umar to myself." When he 
returned it was said (to `Umar), "`Abdullah bin `Umar has come." `Umar said, "Make me sit up." 
Somebody supported him against his body and `Umar asked (`Abdullah), "What news do you have?" 
He said, "O chief of the believers! It is as you wish. She has given the permission." `Umar said, 
"Praise be to Allah, there was nothing more important to me than this. So when I die, take me, and 
greet `Aisha and say: "`Umar bin Al-Khattab asks the permission (to be buried with the Prophet (ﷺ) ), and 
if she gives the permission, bury me there, and if she refuses, then take me to the grave-yard of the 
Muslims." 
Then Hafsa (the mother of the believers) came with many other women walking with her. When we 
saw her, we went away. She went in (to `Umar) and wept there for sometime. When the men asked for 
permission to enter, she went into another place, and we heard her weeping inside. The people said (to 
`Umar), "O chief of the believers! Appoint a successor." `Umar said, "I do not find anyone more 
suitable for the job than the following persons or group whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had been pleased with 
before he died." Then `Umar mentioned `Ali, `Uthman, AzZubair, Talha, Sa`d and `Abdur-Rahman 
(bin `Auf) and said, "Abdullah bin `Umar will be a witness to you, but he will have no share in the 
rule. His being a witness will compensate him for not sharing the right of ruling. If Sa`d becomes the 
ruler, it will be alright: otherwise, whoever becomes the ruler should seek his help, as I have not 
dismissed him because of disability or dishonesty." `Umar added, "I recommend that my successor 
takes care of the early emigrants; to know their rights and protect their honor and sacred things. 
I also recommend that he be kind to the Ansar who had lived in Medina before the emigrants and 
Belief had entered their hearts before them. I recommend that the (ruler) should accept the good of the 
righteous among them and excuse their wrong-doers, and I recommend that he should do good to all 
the people of the towns (Al-Ansar), as they are the protectors of Islam and the source of wealth and 
the source of annoyance to the enemy. I also recommend that nothing be taken from them except from 
their surplus with their consent. I also recommend that he do good to the 'Arab bedouin, as they are 
the origin of the 'Arabs and the material of Islam. He should take from what is inferior, amongst their 
properties and distribute that to the poor amongst them. I also recommend him concerning Allah's and 
His Apostle's protectees (i.e. Dhimmis) to fulfill their contracts and to fight for them and not to 
overburden them with what is beyond their ability." So when `Umar expired, we carried him out and 
set out walking. `Abdullah bin `Umar greeted (`Aisha) and said, "`Umar bin Al-Khattab asks for the 
permission." `Aisha said, "Bring him in." He was brought in and buried beside his two companions. 
When he was buried, the group (recommended by `Umar) held a meeting. Then `Abdur-Rahman said, 
" Reduce the candidates for rulership to three of you." Az-Zubair said, "I give up my right to `Ali." 
Talha said, "I give up my right to `Uthman," Sa`d, 'I give up my right to `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf." 
`Abdur-Rahman then said (to `Uthman and `Ali), "Now which of you is willing to give up his right of 
candidacy to that he may choose the better of the (remaining) two, bearing in mind that Allah and 
Islam will be his witnesses." So both the sheiks (i.e. `Uthman and `Ali) kept silent. `Abdur-Rahman 
said, "Will you both leave this matter to me, and I take Allah as my Witness that I will not choose but 
the better of you?" They said, "Yes." So `Abdur-Rahman took the hand of one of them (i.e. `Ali) and 
said, "You are related to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and one of the earliest Muslims as you know well. So I ask 
you by Allah to promise that if I select you as a ruler you will do justice, and if I select `Uthman as a 
ruler you will listen to him and obey him." Then he took the other (i.e. `Uthman) aside and said the 
same to him. When `Abdur-Rahman secured (their agreement to) this covenant, he said, "O `Uthman! 
Raise your hand." So he (i.e. `Abdur-Rahman) gave him (i.e. `Uthman) the solemn pledge, and then 
`Ali gave him the pledge of allegiance and then all the (Medina) people gave him the pledge of 
allegiance.
Bukhari:3701 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow I will give the flag to a man with whose leadership Allah will grant 
(the Muslim) victory." So the people kept on thinking the whole night as to who would be given the 
flag. The next morning the people went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and every one of them hoped that he would 
be given the flag. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where is `Ali bin Abi Talib?" The people replied, "He is 
suffering from eye trouble, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "Send for him and bring him to me." So when 
`Ali came, the Prophet (ﷺ) spat in his eyes and invoked good on him, and be became alright as if he had 
no ailment. The Prophet (ﷺ) then gave him the flag. `Ali said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I fight them (i.e. 
enemy) till they become like us?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Proceed to them steadily till you approach near 
to them and then invite them to Islam and inform them of their duties towards Allah which Islam 
prescribes for them, for by Allah, if one man is guided on the right path (i.e. converted to Islam) 
through you, it would be better for you than (a great number of) red camels."
Bukhari:3702 Narrated Salama:`Ali happened to stay behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and (did not join him) during the battle of Khaibar for he 
was having eye trouble. Then he said, "How could I remain behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" So `Ali set out 
following the Prophet (ﷺ) , When it was the eve of the day in the morning of which Allah helped (the 
Muslims) to conquer it, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I will give the flag (to a man), or tomorrow a man 
whom Allah and His Apostle love will take the flag," or said, "A man who loves Allah and His 
Apostle; and Allah will grant victory under his leadership." Suddenly came `Ali whom we did not 
expect. The people said, "This is `Ali." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave him the flag and Allah granted victory 
under his leadership.
Bukhari:3703 Narrated Abu Hazim:A man came to Sahl bin Sa`d and said, "This is so-and-so," meaning the Governor of Medina, "He is 
calling `Ali bad names near the pulpit." Sahl asked, "What is he saying?" He (i.e. the man) replied, 
"He calls him (i.e. `Ali) Abu Turab." Sahl laughed and said, "By Allah, none but the Prophet (ﷺ) called 
him by this name and no name was dearer to `Ali than this." So I asked Sahl to tell me more, saying, 
"O Abu `Abbas! How (was this name given to `Ali)?" Sahl said, "`Ali went to Fatima and then came 
out and slept in the Mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked Fatima, "Where is your cousin?" She said, "In the 
Mosque." The Prophet (ﷺ) went to him and found that his (i.e. `Ali's) covering sheet had slipped of his 
back and dust had soiled his back. The Prophet (ﷺ) started wiping the dust off his back and said twice, 
"Get up! O Abu Turab (i.e. O. man with the dust).
Bukhari:3704 Narrated Sa`d bin 'Ubaida:A man came to Ibn `Umar and asked about `Uthman and Ibn `Umar mentioned his good deeds and 
said to the questioner. "Perhaps these facts annoy you?" The other said, "Yes." Ibn `Umar said, "May 
Allah stick your nose in the dust (i.e. degrade you)!' Then the man asked him about `Ali. Ibn `Umar 
mentioned his good deeds and said, "It is all true, and that is his house in the midst of the houses of 
the Prophet. Perhaps these facts have hurt you?" The questioner said, "Yes." Ibn `Umar said, "May 
Allah stick your nose in the dust (i.e. degrade you or make you do things which you hate) ! Go away 
and do whatever you can against me."
Bukhari:3705 Narrated `Ali:Fatima complained of the suffering caused to her by the hand mill. Some Captives were brought to the 
Prophet, she came to him but did not find him at home `Aisha was present there to whom she told (of 
her desire for a servant). When the Prophet (ﷺ) came, Aisha informed him about Fatima's visit. `Ali added 
"So the Prophet (ﷺ) came to us, while we had gone to our bed I wanted to get up but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Remain at your place". Then he sat down between us till I found the coolness of his feet on my chest. 
Then he said, "Shall I teach you a thing which is better than what you have asked me? When you go to 
bed, say, 'Allahu-Akbar' thirty-four times, and 'Subhan Allah thirty-three times, and 'Al hamdu-li l-lah 
thirty-three times for that is better for you both than a servant."
Bukhari:3706 And narrated Sadthat the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Ali, "Will you not be pleased from this that you are to me like Aaron was to Moses?"
Bukhari:3707 Narrated Ubaida:Ali said (to the people of 'Iraq), "Judge as you used to judge, for I hate differences (and I do my best ) till the people unite as one group, or I die as my companions have died."
Bukhari:3708 Narrated Abu Huraira:The people used to say, "Abu Huraira narrates too many narrations." In fact I used to keep close to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and was satisfied with what filled my stomach. I ate no leavened bread and dressed no 
decorated striped clothes, and never did a man or a woman serve me, and I often used to press my 
belly against gravel because of hunger, and I used to ask a man to recite a Qur'anic Verse to me 
although I knew it, so that he would take me to his home and feed me. And the most generous of all 
the people to the poor was Ja`far bin Abi Talib. He used to take us to his home and offer us what was 
available therein. He would even offer us an empty folded leather container (of butter) which we 
would split and lick whatever was in it.
Bukhari:3709 Narrated Ash-Shu`bi:Whenever Ibn `Umar greeted Ibn Jafar, he used to say: "As-salamu-'Alaika (i.e. Peace be on you) O 
son of Dhu-l-Janahain (son of the two-winged person).
Bukhari:3710 Narrated Anas:Whenever there was drought, `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to ask Allah for rain through Al-`Abbas bin 
`Abdul Muttalib, saying, "O Allah! We used to request our Prophet to ask You for rain, and You 
would give us. Now we request the uncle of our Prophet to ask You for rain, so give us rain." And 
they would be given rain."
Bukhari:3711 Narrated 'Aisha:Fatima sent somebody to Abu Bakr asking him to give her her 
     inheritance from the Prophet (ﷺ) from what Allah had given to His Apostle 
     through Fai (i.e. booty gained without fighting). She asked for the 
     Sadaqa (i.e. wealth assigned for charitable purposes) of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     at Medina, and Fadak, and what remained of the Khumus (i.e., 
     one-fifth) of the Khaibar booty. Abu Bakr said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said,
     'We (Prophets), our property is not inherited, and whatever we leave 
     is Sadaqa, but Muhammad's Family can eat from this property, i.e. 
     Allah's property, but they have no right to take more than the food 
     they need.' By Allah! I will not bring any change in dealing with the 
     Sadaqa of the Prophet (and will keep them) as they used to be observed
     in his (i.e. the Prophet's) life-time, and I will dispose with it as 
     Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do," Then 'Ali said, "I testify that None has 
     the right to be worshipped but Allah, and that Muhammad is His 
     Apostle," and added, "O Abu Bakr! We acknowledge your superiority." 
     Then he (i.e. 'Ali) mentioned their own relationship to Allah's 
     Apostle and their right. Abu Bakr then spoke saying, "By Allah in 
     Whose Hands my life is. I love to do good to the relatives of Allah's 
     Apostle rather than to my own relatives"
Bukhari:3712 Narrated 'Aisha:Fatima sent somebody to Abu Bakr asking him to give her her 
     inheritance from the Prophet (ﷺ) from what Allah had given to His Apostle 
     through Fai (i.e. booty gained without fighting). She asked for the 
     Sadaqa (i.e. wealth assigned for charitable purposes) of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     at Medina, and Fadak, and what remained of the Khumus (i.e., 
     one-fifth) of the Khaibar booty. Abu Bakr said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said,
     'We (Prophets), our property is not inherited, and whatever we leave 
     is Sadaqa, but Muhammad's Family can eat from this property, i.e. 
     Allah's property, but they have no right to take more than the food 
     they need.' By Allah! I will not bring any change in dealing with the 
     Sadaqa of the Prophet (and will keep them) as they used to be observed
     in his (i.e. the Prophet's) life-time, and I will dispose with it as 
     Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do," Then 'Ali said, "I testify that None has 
     the right to be worshipped but Allah, and that Muhammad is His 
     Apostle," and added, "O Abu Bakr! We acknowledge your superiority." 
     Then he (i.e. 'Ali) mentioned their own relationship to Allah's 
     Apostle and their right. Abu Bakr then spoke saying, "By Allah in 
     Whose Hands my life is. I love to do good to the relatives of Allah's 
     Apostle rather than to my own relatives"
Bukhari:3713 Abu Bakr:Look at 
     Muhammad through his family (i.e. if you are no good to his family you
     are not good to him).
Bukhari:3714 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fatima is a part of me, and he who makes her angry, makes me angry."
Bukhari:3715 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) called his daughter Fatima during his illness in which he died, and told her a secret 
whereupon she wept. Then he called her again and told her a secret whereupon she laughed. When I 
asked her about that, she replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to me in secret and informed me that he would 
die in the course of the illness during which he died, so I wept. He again spoke to me in secret and 
informed me that I would be the first of his family to follow him (after his death) and on that I 
laughed."
Bukhari:3716 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) called his daughter Fatima during his illness in which he died, and told her a secret 
whereupon she wept. Then he called her again and told her a secret whereupon she laughed. When I 
asked her about that, she replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to me in secret and informed me that he would 
die in the course of the illness during which he died, so I wept. He again spoke to me in secret and 
informed me that I would be the first of his family to follow him (after his death) and on that I 
laughed."
Bukhari:3717 Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam:`Uthman bin `Affan was afflicted with severe nose-bleeding in the year when such illness was 
prevelant and that prevented him from performing Hajj, and (because of it) he made his will. A man 
from Quraish came to him and said, "Appoint your successor." `Uthman asked, "Did the people name 
him? (i.e. the successor) the man said, "Yes." `Uthman asked, "Who is that?" The man remained 
silent. Another man came to `Uthman and I think it was Al-Harith. He also said, "Appoint your 
successor." `Uthman asked, "Did the people name him?" The man replied "Yes." `Uthman said, "Who 
is that?" The man remained silent. `Uthman said, "Perhaps they have mentioned Az-Zubair?" The man 
said, "Yes." `Uthman said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, he is the best of them as I know, and 
the dearest of them to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ."
Bukhari:3718 Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam:While I was with `Uthman, a man came to him and said, "Appoint your successor." `Uthman said, 
"Has such successor been named?" He replied, "Yes, Az-Zubair." `Uthman said, thrice, "By Allah! 
Indeed you know that he is the best of you."
Bukhari:3719 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every prophet used to have a Hawari (i.e. disciple), and my Hawari is Az-Zubair 
bin Al-`Awwam."
Bukhari:3720 Narrated `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair:During the battle of Al-Ahzab, I and `Umar bin Abi-Salama were kept behind with the women. 
Behold! I saw (my father) Az-Zubair riding his horse, going to and coming from Bani Quraiza twice 
or thrice. So when I came back I said, "O my father! I saw you going to and coming from Bani 
Quraiza?" He said, "Did you really see me, O my son?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 
'Who will go to Bani Quraiza and bring me their news?' So I went, and when I came back, Allah's 
Apostle mentioned for me both his parents saying, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you."'
Bukhari:3721 Narrated `Urwa:On the day of the battle of Al-Yarmuk, the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Az-Zubair, "Will you 
attack the enemy vigorously so that we may attack them along with you?" So Az-Zubair attacked 
them, and they inflicted two wounds over his shoulder, and in between these two wounds there was an 
old scar he had received on the day of the battle of Badr When I was a child, I used to insert my 
fingers into those scars in play.
Bukhari:3722 Narrated Abu `Uthman:During one of the Ghazawat in which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fighting, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) 
but Talha and Sa`d.
Bukhari:3723 Narrated Abu `Uthman:During one of the Ghazawat in which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fighting, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) 
but Talha and Sa`d.
Bukhari:3724 Narrated Qais bin Abi Hazim:I saw Talha's paralyzed hand with which he had protected the Prophet (from an arrow) .
Bukhari:3725 Narrated Sa`d:On the day of the battle of Uhud the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned for me both his parents (i.e. saying, "Let my 
parents be sacrificed for you.").
Bukhari:3726 Narrated Sa`d:No doubt, (for some time) I stood for one-third of the Muslims.
Bukhari:3727 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:No man embraced Islam before the day on which I embraced Islam, and no doubt, I remained for 
seven days as one third of the then extant Muslims.
Bukhari:3728 Narrated Qais:I heard Sa`d saying, "I was the first amongst the 'Arabs who shot an arrow for Allah's Cause. We used 
to fight along with the Prophets, while we had nothing to eat except the leaves of trees so that one's 
excrete would look like the excrete balls of camel or a sheep, containing nothing to mix them together. 
Today Banu Asad tribe blame me for not having understood Islam. I would be a loser if my deeds 
were in vain." Those people complained about Sa`d to `Umar, claiming that he did not offer his 
prayers perfectly.
Bukhari:3729 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:`Ali demanded the hand of the daughter of Abu Jahl. Fatima heard of this and went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
saying, "Your people think that you do not become angry for the sake of your daughters as `Ali is now 
going to marry the daughter of Abu Jahl. "On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up and after his recitation of 
Tashah-hud. I heard him saying, "Then after! I married one of my daughters to Abu Al-`As bin Al- 
Rabi` (the husband of Zainab, the daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) before Islam and he proved truthful in 
whatever he said to me. No doubt, Fatima is a part of me, I hate to see her being troubled. By Allah, 
the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the daughter of Allah's Enemy cannot be the wives of one man." 
So `Ali gave up that engagement. 
'Al-Miswar further said: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) talking and he mentioned a son-in-law of his belonging to 
the tribe of Bani `Abd-Shams. He highly praised him concerning that relationship and said (whenever) 
he spoke to me, he spoke the truth, and whenever he promised me, he fulfilled his promise."
Bukhari:3730 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent an army under the command of Usama bin Zaid. When some people criticized his 
leadership, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you are criticizing Usama's leadership, you used to criticize his 
father's leadership before. By Allah! He was worthy of leadership and was one of the dearest persons 
to me, and (now) this (i.e. Usama) is one of the dearest to me after him (i.e. Zaid).
Bukhari:3731 Narrated `Urwa:Aisha said, "A Qaif (i.e. one skilled in recognizing the lineage of a person through Physiognomy and 
through examining the body parts of an infant) came to me while the Prophet (ﷺ) was present, and Usama 
bin Zaid and Zaid bin Haritha were Lying asleep. The Qa'if said. These feet (of Usama and his father) 
are of persons belonging to the same lineage.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) was pleased with that saying which won 
his admiration, and he told `Aisha of it.
Bukhari:3732 Narrated 'Aisha:The people of the Quraish tribe were worried about the Makhzumiya 
     woman. They said. "Nobody dare speak to him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) except
     Usama bin Zaid as he is the most beloved to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:3733 Aishasaid, "A woman from Bani Makhzumiya committed a theft and the people 
     said, 'Who can intercede with the Prophet (ﷺ) for her?' So nobody dared 
     speak to him (i.e. the Prophet) but Usama bin Zaid spoke to him. The 
     Prophet said, 'If a reputable man amongst the children of Bani Israel 
     committed a theft, they used to forgive him, but if a poor man 
     committed a theft, they would cut his hand. But I would cut even the 
     hand of Fatima (i.e. the daughter of the Prophet) if she committed a 
     theft."
Bukhari:3734 Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:One day Ibn `Umar, while in the Mosque, looked at a man who was dragging his clothes while 
walking in one of the corners of the Mosque He said, "See who is that. I wish he was near to me." 
Somebody then said (to Ibn `Umar), "Don't you know him, O Abu `Abdur-Rahman? He is 
Muhammad bin Usama." On that Ibn `Umar bowed his head and dug the earth with his hands and 
then, said, "If Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him, he would have loved him."
Bukhari:3735 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to take him (i.e. Usama) and Al-Hassan (in his 
     lap) and say: "O Allah! Love them, as I love them."
Bukhari:3736 The freed slave of Usama bin Zaid said,"Al-Hajjaj bin Aiman bin Um Aiman and Aiman Ibn 
     Um Aiman was Usama's brother from the maternal side, and he was one of
     the Ansar. He was seen by Ibn 'Umar not performing his bowing and 
     prostrations in a perfect manner. So Ibn 'Umar told him to repeat his 
     prayer.
Bukhari:3737 Harmala, the freed slave of Usama bin Zaid saidthat while he 
     was in the company of 'Abdullah bin 'Umar, Al-Hajjaj bin Aiman came in
     and (while praying) he did not perform his bowing and prostrations 
     properly. So Ibn 'Umar told him to repeat his prayer. When he went 
     away, Ibn 'Umar asked me, "Who is he?" I said, "Al-Hajjaj bin Um 
     Aiman." Ibn 'Umar said, "If Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him, he would have 
     loved him." Then Ibn 'Umar mentioned the love of the Prophet (ﷺ) for the 
     children of Um Aiman. Sulaiman said that Um Aiman was one of the nurses
     of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3738 Narrated Ibn `Umar:If a man saw a dream during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) he would narrate it to the Prophet. Once I 
wished to see a dream and narrate it to the Prophet (ﷺ) I was young, unmarried, and used to sleep in the 
Mosque during the lifetime of the Prophet. I dreamt that two angels took me and went away with me 
towards the (Hell) Fire which looked like a well with the inside walls built up, and had two side-walls 
like those of a well. There I saw some people in it whom I knew. I started saying, "I seek Refuge with 
Allah from the (Hell) Fire, I seek Refuge with Allah from the (Hell) Fire." Then another angel met the 
other two and said to me, "Do not be afraid." I narrated my dream to Hafsa who, in her turn, narrated 
it to the Prophet. He said, "What an excellent man `Abdullah is if he only observes the night prayer." 
(Salem, a sub-narrator said, "Abdullah used not to sleep at night but very little hence forward."
Bukhari:3739 Narrated Ibn `Umar:If a man saw a dream during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) he would narrate it to the Prophet. Once I 
wished to see a dream and narrate it to the Prophet (ﷺ) I was young, unmarried, and used to sleep in the 
Mosque during the lifetime of the Prophet. I dreamt that two angels took me and went away with me 
towards the (Hell) Fire which looked like a well with the inside walls built up, and had two side-walls 
like those of a well. There I saw some people in it whom I knew. I started saying, "I seek Refuge with 
Allah from the (Hell) Fire, I seek Refuge with Allah from the (Hell) Fire." Then another angel met the 
other two and said to me, "Do not be afraid." I narrated my dream to Hafsa who, in her turn, narrated 
it to the Prophet. He said, "What an excellent man `Abdullah is if he only observes the night prayer." 
(Salem, a sub-narrator said, "Abdullah used not to sleep at night but very little hence forward."
Bukhari:3740 Narrated Ibn `Umar from Hafsa his sister:That the Prophet (ﷺ) had said to her, "`Abdullah is a pious man."
Bukhari:3741 Narrated Ibn `Umar from Hafsa his sister:That the Prophet (ﷺ) had said to her, "`Abdullah is a pious man."
Bukhari:3742 Narrated 'Alqama:I went to Sham and offered a two-rak`at prayer and then said, "O Allah! Bless me with a good pious 
companion." So I went to some people and sat with them. An old man came and sat by my side. I 
asked, "Who is he?" They replied, "(He is) Abu-Ad-Darda.' I said (to him), "I prayed to Allah to bless 
me with a pious companion and He sent you to me." He asked me, "From where are you?" I replied, 
"From the people of Al-Kufa." He said, "Isn't there amongst you Ibn Um `Abd, the one who used to 
carry the shoes, the cushion(or pillow) and the water for ablution? Is there amongst you the one 
whom Allah gave Refuge from Satan through the request of His Prophet. Is there amongst you the one 
who keeps the secrets of the Prophet (ﷺ) which nobody knows except him?" Abu Darda further asked, 
"How does `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) recite the Sura starting with, 'By the Night as it conceals (the 
light)." (92.1) Then I recited before him: 
'By the Night as it envelops: And by the Day as it appears in brightness; And by male and female.' 
(91.1-3) On this Abu Ad-Darda' said, "By Allah, the Prophet (ﷺ) made me recite the Sura in this way 
while I was listening to him (reciting it).
Bukhari:3743 Narrated Ibrahim:'Alqama went to Sham and when he entered the mosque, he said, "O Allah ! Bless me with a pious 
companion." So he sat with Abu Ad-Darda. Abu Ad-Darda' asked him, "Where are you from?" 
'Alqama replied, "From the people of Kufa." Abu Ad-Darda said, "Isn't there amongst you the Keeper 
of the secret which nobody else knows i.e. Hudhaifa?" Al-qama said, "Yes." Then Abu Ad-Darda 
further said, "Isn't there amongst you the person whom Allah gave Refuge from Satan through the 
invocation of His Prophet namely `Ammar?" Alqama replied in the affirmative Abu Ad-Darda said, 
"Isn't there amongst you the person who carries the Siwak (or the Secret) (i.e. of the Prophet (ﷺ) namely 
`Abdullah bin Massud)?" Alqama said, "Yes." Then Abu Ad-Darda asked, "How (Abdullah bin 
Masud) used to recite the Sura starting with: "By the night as it envelopes; By the day as it appears in 
brightness?" (92.1-2). Alqama said "And by male and female." Abu Ad-Darda then said, "These 
people (of Sham) tried hard to make me accept something other than what I had heard from the 
Prophet."
Bukhari:3744 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, " Every nation has an extremely trustworthy man, and the trustworthy man of 
this (i.e. Muslim) nation is Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah."
Bukhari:3745 Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the people of Nijran, "I will send you the most trustworthy man." (Every one of) 
the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) was looking forward (to be that person). He then sent Abu 'Ubaida.
Bukhari:3746 Narrated Abu Bakra:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) talking at the pulpit while Al-Hasan was sitting beside him, and he (i.e. the 
Prophet ) was once looking at the people and at another time Al-Hasan, and saying, "This son of mine 
is a Saiyid (i.e. chief) and perhaps Allah will bring about an agreement between two sects of the 
Muslims through him."
Bukhari:3747 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to take him and Al-Hasan, and used to say, "O Allah! I love them, so please 
love them," or said something similar.
Bukhari:3748 Narrated Muhammad:Anas bin Malik said, "The head of Al-Husain was brought to 'Ubaidullah bin Ziyad and was put in a 
tray, and then Ibn Ziyad started playing with a stick at the nose and mouth of Al-Husain's head and 
saying something about his handsome features." Anas then said (to him), "Al-Husain resembled the 
Prophet more than the others did." Anas added, "His (i.e. Al-Husain's) hair was dyed with Wasma (i.e. 
a kind of plant used as a dye).
Bukhari:3749 Narrated Al-Bara:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) carrying Al-Hasan on his shoulder an saying, "O Allah! I love him, so please love 
him."
Bukhari:3750 Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:I saw Abu Bakr carrying Al-Hasan and saying, "Let my father be sacrificed for you; you resemble the 
Prophet and not `Ali," while `Ali was laughing at this.
Bukhari:3751 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Abu Bakr used to say, "Look after Muhammad (ﷺ) in (looking after) his family."
Bukhari:3752 Narrated Anas:None resembled the Prophet (ﷺ) more than Al-Hasan bin `Ali did.
Bukhari:3753 Narrated Ibn Abi Nu'm:A person asked `Abdullah bin `Umar whether a Muslim could kill flies. I heard him saying (in reply). 
"The people of Iraq are asking about the killing of flies while they themselves murdered the son of the 
daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . The Prophet (ﷺ) said, They (i.e. Hasan and Husain) are my two sweet basils 
in this world."
Bukhari:3754 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:`Umar used to say, "Abu Bakr is our chief, and he manumitted our chief," meaning Bilal.
Bukhari:3755 Narrated Qais:Bilal said to Abu Bakr, "If you have bought me for yourself then keep me (for yourself), but if you 
have bought me for Allah's Sake, then leave me for Allah's Work."
Bukhari:3756 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) embraced me (pressed me to his chest) and said, "O Allah, teach him wisdom (i.e. 
the understanding of the knowledge of Qur'an).
Bukhari:3757 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) had informed the people about the death of Zaid, Ja`far and Ibn Rawaha before the news 
of their death reached them. He said with his eyes flowing with tears, "Zaid took the flag and was 
martyred; then Ja`far took the flag and was martyred, and then Ibn Rawaha took the flag and was 
martyred. Finally the flag was taken by one of Allah's Swords (i.e. Khalid bin Al-Walid) and Allah 
gave them (i.e. the Muslims) victory."
Bukhari:3758 Narrated Masruq:`Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) was mentioned before `Abdullah bin `Amr. The latter said, "That is a man I 
continue to love because I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, ' Learn the recitation of the Qur'an from (any 
of these) four persons: `Abdullah bin Masud, Salim the freed slave of Abu Hudhaifa, Ubai bin Ka`b, 
and Mu`adh bin Jabal." I do not remember whether he mentioned Ubai first or Mu`adh.
Bukhari:3759 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) neither talked in an insulting manner nor did he ever speak evil intentionally. He used 
to say, "The most beloved to me amongst you is the one who has the best character and manners." He 
added, " Learn the Qur'an from (any of these) four persons. `Abdullah bin Mas`ud, Salim the freed 
slave of Abu Hudhaifa, Ubai bin Ka`b, and Mu`adh bin Jabal."
Bukhari:3760 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) neither talked in an insulting manner nor did he ever speak evil intentionally. He used 
to say, "The most beloved to me amongst you is the one who has the best character and manners." He 
added, " Learn the Qur'an from (any of these) four persons. `Abdullah bin Mas`ud, Salim the freed 
slave of Abu Hudhaifa, Ubai bin Ka`b, and Mu`adh bin Jabal."
Bukhari:3761 Narrated Alqama:I went to Sham and was offering a two-rak`at prayer; I said, "O Allah! Bless me with a (pious) 
companion." Then I saw an old man coming towards me, and when he came near I said, (to myself), 
"I hope Allah has given me my request." The man asked (me), "Where are you from?" I replied, "I am 
from the people of Kufa." He said, "Weren't there amongst you the Carrier of the (Prophet's) shoes, 
Siwak and the ablution water container? Weren't there amongst you the man who was given Allah's 
Refuge from the Satan? And weren't there amongst you the man who used to keep the (Prophet's) 
secrets which nobody else knew? How did Ibn Um `Abd (i.e. `Abdullah bin Mas`ud) use to recite 
Surat-al-lail (the Night:92)?" I recited:-- 
"By the Night as it envelops By the Day as it appears in brightness. And by male and female." (92.1- 
3) On that, Abu Darda said, "By Allah, the Prophet (ﷺ) made me read the Verse in this way after listening 
to him, but these people (of Sham) tried their best to let me say something different."
Bukhari:3762 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid:We asked Hudhaifa to tell us of a person resembling (to some extent) the Prophet (ﷺ) in good appearance 
and straight forward behavior so that we may learn from him (good manners and acceptable conduct). 
Hudhaifa replied, "I do not know anybody resembling the Prophet (to some extent) in appearance and 
conduct more than Ibn Um `Abd.
Bukhari:3763 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:My brother and I came from Yemen, and for some time we continued to consider `Abdullah bin 
Mas`ud as one of the members of the family of the Prophet (ﷺ) because we used to see him and his mother 
going in the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) very often.
Bukhari:3764 Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika:Muawiya offered one rak`a witr prayer after the `Isha prayer, and at that time a freed slave of Ibn 
`Abbas was present. He (i.e. the slave) went to Ibn `Abbas (and told him that Muawiya offered one 
rak`a witr prayer). Ibn `Abbas said, "Leave him, for he was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Bukhari:3765 Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:Somebody said to Ibn `Abbas, "Can you speak to the chief of the believers Mu`awiyah, as he does not 
pray except one rak`a as witr?" Ibn `Abbas replied, "He is a Faqih (i.e. a learned man who can give 
religious verdicts) ."
Bukhari:3766 Narrated Humran bin Aban:Muawiya said (to the people), "You offer a prayer which we, who were the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering, and he forbade its offering," i.e. the two rak`at after the compulsory 
`Asr prayer.
Bukhari:3767 Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fatima is a part of me, and whoever makes her angry, makes me angry."
Bukhari:3768 Narrated Abu Salama:`Aisha said, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), 'O Aish (`Aisha)! This is Gabriel greeting you.' I said, 
'Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be on him, you see what I don't see' " She was addressing 
Allah 's Apostle.
Bukhari:3769 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Many amongst men attained perfection but amongst women none attained the 
perfection except Mary, the daughter of `Imran and Asiya, the wife of Pharaoh. And the superiority of 
`Aisha to other women is like the superiority of Tharid (i.e. an Arabic dish) to other meals."
Bukhari:3770 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The superiority of `Aisha over other women is like the superiority of Tharid to 
other meals."
Bukhari:3771 Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:Once `Aisha became sick and Ibn `Abbas went to see her and said, "O mother of the believers! You 
are leaving for truthful fore-runners i.e. for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr.
Bukhari:3772 Narrated Abu Wail:When `Ali sent `Ammar and Al-Hasan to (the people of) Kufa to urge them to fight, `Ammar 
addressed them saying, "I know that she (i.e. `Aisha) is the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) in this world and in the 
Hereafter (world to come), but Allah has put you to test, whether you will follow Him (i.e. Allah) or 
her."
Bukhari:3773 Narrated `Aisha:That she borrowed a necklace from Asma' and it was lost. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent some of his 
companions to look for it. During their journey the time of prayer was due and they prayed without 
ablution. When they returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) they complained about it. So the Divine Verse of 
Tayammum was revealed. Usaid bin Hudair said (to `Aisha), "May Allah reward you handsomely. By 
Allah, whenever you have a difficulty, Allah took you out of it and brought with it, a Blessing for the 
Muslims."
Bukhari:3774 Narrated Hisham's father:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in his fatal illness, he started visiting his wives and saying, "Where will I 
be tomorrow?" He was anxious to be in `Aisha's home. `Aisha said, "So when it was my day, the 
Prophet became silent (no longer asked the question).
Bukhari:3775 Narrated Hisham's father:The people used to send presents to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of `Aisha's turn. `Aisha said, "My 
companions (i.e. the other wives of the Prophet) gathered in the house of Um Salama and said, "O Um 
Salama! By Allah, the people choose to send presents on the day of `Aisha's turn and we too, love the 
good (i.e. presents etc.) as `Aisha does. You should tell Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to tell the people to send their 
presents to him wherever he may be, or wherever his turn may be." Um Salama said that to the 
Prophet and he turned away from her, and when the Prophet (ﷺ) returned to her (i.e. Um Salama), she 
repeated the same, and the Prophet (ﷺ) again turned away, and when she told him the same for the third 
time, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Um Salama! Don't trouble me by harming `Aisha, for by Allah, the Divine 
Inspiration never came to me while I was under the blanket of any woman amongst you except her."
Bukhari:3776 Narrated Ghailan bin Jarir:I asked Anas, "Tell me about the name 'Al-Ansar.; Did you call yourselves by it or did Allah call you 
by it?" He said, "Allah called us by it." We used to visit Anas (at Basra) and he used to narrate to us 
the virtues and deeds of the Ansar, and he used to address me or a person from the tribe of Al-Azd and 
say, "Your tribe did so-and-so on such-and-such a day."
Bukhari:3777 Narrated `Aisha:The day of Bu'ath (i.e. Day of fighting between the two tribes of the Ansar, the Aus and Khazraj) was 
brought about by Allah for the good of His Apostle so that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached (Medina), 
the tribes of Medina had already divided and their chiefs had been killed and wounded. So Allah had 
brought about the battle for the good of H is Apostle in order that they (i.e. the Ansar) might embrace 
Islam.
Bukhari:3778 Narrated Anas:On the day of the Conquest of Mecca, when the Prophet (ﷺ) had given (from the booty) the Quraish, the 
Ansar said, "By Allah, this is indeed very strange: While our swords are still dribbling with the blood 
of Quraish, our war booty are distributed amongst them." When this news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he 
called the Ansar and said, "What is this news that has reached me from you?" They used not to tell 
lies, so they replied, "What has reached you is true." He said, "Doesn't it please you that the people 
take the booty to their homes and you take Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to your homes? If the Ansar took their way 
through a valley or a mountain pass, I would take the Ansar's valley or a mountain pass."
Bukhari:3779 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) or Abul-Qasim said, "If the Ansar took their way through a valley or a mountain pass, I 
would take Ansar's valley. And but for the migration, I would have been one of the Ansar." Abu 
Huraira used to say, "The Prophet (ﷺ) is not unjust (by saying so). May my parents be sacrificed for him, 
for the Ansar sheltered and helped him," or said a similar sentence.
Bukhari:3780 Narrated Sa`d's father:When the emigrants reached Medina. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) established the bond of fraternity between 
`Abdur-Rahman and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi. Sa`d said to `Abdur-Rahman, "I am the richest of all the 
Ansar, so I want to divide my property (between us), and I have two wives, so see which of the two 
you like and tell me, so that I may divorce her, and when she finishes her prescribed period (i.e. 'Idda) 
of divorce, then marry her." `Abdur-Rahman said, "May Allah bless your family and property for you; 
where is your market?" So they showed him the Qainuqa' market. (He went there and) returned with a 
profit in the form of dried yogurt and butter. He continued going (to the market) till one day he came, 
bearing the traces of yellow scent. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "What is this (scent)?" He replied, "I got 
married." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "How much Mahr did you give her?" He replied, "I gave her a datestone 
of gold or a gold piece equal to the weight of a date-stone." (The narrator, Ibrahim, is in doubt as 
to which is correct.)
Bukhari:3781 Narrated Anas:When `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf came to us, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a bond of fraternity between him 
and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi` who was a rich man, Sa`d said, "The Ansar know that I am the richest of all of 
them, so I will divide my property into two parts between me and you, and I have two wives; see 
which of the two you like so that I may divorce her and you can marry her after she becomes lawful to 
you by her passing the prescribed period (i.e. 'Idda) of divorce. `Abdur Rahman said, "May Allah 
bless you your family (i.e. wives) for you." (But `Abdur-Rahman went to the market) and did not 
return on that day except with some gain of dried yogurt and butter. He went on trading just a few 
days till he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bearing the traces of yellow scent over his clothes. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
asked him, "What is this scent?" He replied, "I have married a woman from the Ansar." Allah's 
Apostle asked, "How much Mahr have you given?" He said, "A date-stone weight of gold or a golden 
date-stone." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Arrange a marriage banquet even with a sheep."
Bukhari:3782 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Ansar said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "Please divide the date-palm trees between us and them (i.e. 
emigrants)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No." The Ansar said, "Let them (i.e. the emigrants) do the labor for us 
in the gardens and share the date-fruits with us." The emigrants said, "We accepted this."
Bukhari:3783 Narrated Al-Bara:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying (or the Prophet (ﷺ) said), "None loves the Ansar but a believer, and none hates 
them but a hypocrite. So Allah will love him who loves them, and He will hate him who hates them."
Bukhari:3784 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sign of Belief is to love the Ansar, and the sign of hypocrisy is to hate the 
Ansar."
Bukhari:3785 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw the women and children (of the Ansar) coming forward. (The sub-narrator said, "I 
think that Anas said, 'They were returning from a wedding party.") The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and said 
thrice, "By Allah! You are from the most beloved people to me."
Bukhari:3786 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once an Ansari woman, accompanied by a son of hers, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) spoke 
to her and said twice, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, you are the most beloved people to me."
Bukhari:3787 Narrated Zaid bin Al-Arqam:The Annwar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Every prophet has his own followers and we have followed 
you. So will you invoke Allah to let our followers be considered from us (as Ansar too)?" So he 
invoked Allah accordingly.
Bukhari:3788 Narrated Abu Hamza:(A man from the Ansar) The Ansar said, "Every nation has followers and (O Prophet) we have 
followed you, so invoke Allah to let our followers be considered from us (as Ansar like ourselves)." 
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Let their followers be considered as Ansar like themselves."
Bukhari:3789 Narrated Abu Usaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best of the Ansar's families (homes) are those of Banu An-Najjar and then 
(those of) Banu `Abdul Ash-hal, then (those of) Banu Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj and then (those of) 
Banu Sa`ida; nevertheless, there is good in all the families (houses) of the Ansar." On this, Sa`d (bin 
Ubada) said, "I see that the Prophet (ﷺ) has preferred some people to us." Somebody said (to him), "No, 
but he has given you superiority to many."

(Hadith similar to above with a different chain)
Bukhari:3790 Narrated Abu Usaid:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The best of the Ansar, or the best of the Ansar families (homes) are 
Banu An-Najjar, Bani `Abdul Ash-hal, Banu Al-Harith and Banu Sai'da."
Bukhari:3791 Narrated Abu Humaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best of the Ansar families (homes) are the families (homes) of Banu An- 
Najjar, and then that of Banu `Abdul Ash-hal, and then that of Banu Al-Harith, and then that of Banu 
Saida; and there is good in all the families (homes) of the Ansar." Sa`d bin 'Ubada followed us and 
said, "O Abu Usaid ! Don't you see that the Prophet (ﷺ) compared the Ansar and made us the last of them 
in superiority? 
Then Sa`d met the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! In comparing the Ansar's families (homes) as 
to the degree of superiority, you have made us the last of them." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Isn't it 
sufficient that you are regarded amongst the best?"
Bukhari:3792 Narrated Usaid bin Hudair:A man from the Ansar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will you appoint me as you have appointed so-andso?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "After me you will see others given preference to you; so be patient till you 
meet me at the Tank (i.e. Lake of Kauthar). (on the Day of Resurrection).
Bukhari:3793 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the Ansar, "After me you will see others given preference to you; so be patient till 
you meet me, and your promised place (of meeting) will be the Tank (i.e. Lake of Kauthar).
Bukhari:3794 Narrated Yahya bin Sa`id:That he heard Anas bin Malik when he went with him to Al-Walid, saying, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) called 
the Ansar in order to give them the territory of Bahrain they said, 'No, unless you give to our emigrant 
brethren a similar share.' On that he said 'If you do not agree to it, then be patient till you meet me, for 
after me others will be given preference to you."'
Bukhari:3795 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no life except the life of the Hereafter; so, O Allah! Improve the state 
of the Ansar and the Muhajirun." And Anas added that the Prophet (ﷺ) also said, "O Allah! Forgive the 
Ansar."
Bukhari:3796 Narrated Anas bin Malik:On the day of the battle of the Trench (i.e. Ghazwat-ul-Khandaq) the Ansar used to say, "We are those 
who have given the pledge of allegiance to Muhammad for Jihad (i.e. holy fighting) as long as we 
live." The Prophet (ﷺ) , replied to them, "O Allah! There is no life except the life of the Hereafter; so 
please honor the Ansar and the Emigrants."
Bukhari:3797 Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us while we were digging the trench and carrying out the earth on our backs. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "O Allah ! There is no life except the life of the Hereafter, so please forgive 
the Emigrants and the Ansar."
Bukhari:3798 Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a messenger to his wives (to bring something for that 
man to eat) but they said that they had nothing except water. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who will 
take this (person) or entertain him as a guest?" An Ansar man said, "I." So he took him to his wife and 
said to her, "Entertain generously the guest of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) " She said, "We have got nothing except 
the meals of my children." He said, "Prepare your meal, light your lamp and let your children sleep if 
they ask for supper." So she prepared her meal, lighted her lamp and made her children sleep, and then 
stood up pretending to mend her lamp, but she put it off. Then both of them pretended to be eating, 
but they really went to bed hungry. In the morning the Ansari went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, 
"Tonight Allah laughed or wondered at your action." Then Allah revealed: 
"But give them (emigrants) preference over themselves even though they were in need of that And 
whosoever is saved from the covetousness Such are they who will be successful." (59.9)
Bukhari:3799 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Abu Bakr and Al-`Abbas passed by one of the gatherings of the Ansar who were weeping then. He 
(i.e. Abu Bakr or Al-`Abbas) asked, "Why are you weeping?" They replied, "We are weeping because 
we remember the gathering of the Prophet (ﷺ) with us." So Abu Bakr went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him of 
that. The Prophet (ﷺ) came out, tying his head with a piece of the hem of a sheet. He ascended the pulpit 
which he never ascended after that day. He glorified and praised Allah and then said, "I request you to 
take care of the Ansar as they are my near companions to whom I confided my private secrets. They 
have fulfilled their obligations and rights which were enjoined on them but there remains what is for 
them. So, accept the good of the good-doers amongst them and excuse the wrongdoers amongst 
them."
Bukhari:3800 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (in his fatal illness) came out wrapped in a sheet covering his shoulders and his head 
was tied with an oily tape of cloth till he sat on the pulpit, and after praising and glorifying Allah, he 
said, "Then-after, O people! The people will go on increasing, but the Ansar will go on decreasing till 
they become just like salt in a meal. So whoever amongst you will be the ruler and have the power to 
harm or benefit others, should accept the good of the good-doers amongst them and excuse the wrongdoers 
amongst them."
Bukhari:3801 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Ansar are my near companions to whom I confided my private secrets, People 
will go on increasing but the Ansar will go on decreasing; so accept the good of the good-doers 
amongst them and excuse the wrong-doers amongst them. "
Bukhari:3802 Narrated Al-Bara:A silken cloth was given as a present to the Prophet (ﷺ) . His companions started touching it and admiring 
its softness. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you admiring its softness? The handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh 
(in Paradise) are better and softer than it."
Bukhari:3803 Narrated Jabir:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The Throne (of Allah) shook at the death of Sa`d bin Mu`adh." Through 
another group of narrators, Jabir added, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) : saying, 'The Throne of the Beneficent 
shook because of the death of Sa`d bin Mu`adh."
Bukhari:3804 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Some people (i.e. the Jews of Bani bin Quraiza) agreed to accept the verdict of Sa`d bin Mu`adh so 
the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for him (i.e. Sa`d bin Mu`adh). He came riding a donkey, and when he approached 
the Mosque, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Get up for the best amongst you." or said, "Get up for your chief." 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Sa`d! These people have agreed to accept your verdict." Sa`d said, "I judge 
that their warriors should be killed and their children and women should be taken as captives." The 
Prophet said, "You have given a judgment similar to Allah's Judgment (or the King's judgment).
Bukhari:3805 Narrated Anas:Two men left the Prophet (ﷺ) on a very dark night. Suddenly a light came in front of them, and when they 
separated, the light also separated along with them.
Bukhari:3806 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Learn the recitation of Qur'an from four persons: Ibn Mas`ud, Salim, the 
freed slave of Abu Hudhaifa, Ubai and Mu`adh bin Jabal."
Bukhari:3807 Narrated Abu Usaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The best of the Ansar's houses are those of Bani An-Najjar, then those of Bani 
`Abdul Ash-hal, then those of Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj, then those of Bani Saida; but there is 
goodness in all the houses of the Ansar." Sa`d bin Ubada who was one of those who embraced Islam 
early, said, "I see that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is giving others superiority above us." Some people said to him, 
"But he has given you superiority above many other people."
Bukhari:3808 Narrated Masruq:`Abdullah bin Masud was mentioned before `Abdullah bin `Amr who said, "That is a man I still love, 
as I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying 'Learn the recitation of Qur'an from four from `Abdullah bin Mas`ud -- 
he started with him--Salim, the freed slave of Abu Hudaifa, Mu`adh bin Jabal and Ubai bin Ka`b."
Bukhari:3809 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ubai, "Allah has ordered me to recite to you: 'Those who disbelieve (Surat-al- 
Bayina 98).' " Ubai said, "Has He mentioned my name?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." On hearing this, 
Ubai started weeping.
Bukhari:3810 Narrated Qatada:Anas said, "The Qur'an was collected in the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) by four (men), all of whom were 
from the Ansar: Ubai, Mu`adh bin Jabal, Abu Zaid and Zaid bin Thabit." I asked Anas, "Who is Abu 
Zaid?" He said, "One of my uncles."
Bukhari:3811 Narrated Anas:On the day of the battle of Uhud, the people ran away, leaving the Prophet (ﷺ) , but Abu- Talha was 
shielding the Prophet (ﷺ) with his shield in front of him. Abu Talha was a strong, experienced archer who 
used to keep his arrow bow strong and well stretched. On that day he broke two or three arrow bows. 
If any man passed by carrying a quiver full of arrows, the Prophet (ﷺ) would say to him, "Empty it in 
front of Abu Talha." When the Prophet (ﷺ) stated looking at the enemy by raising his head, Abu Talha 
said, "O Allah's Prophet! Let my parents be sacrificed for your sake! Please don't raise your head and 
make it visible, lest an arrow of the enemy should hit you. Let my neck and chest be wounded instead 
of yours." (On that day) I saw `Aisha, the daughter of Abu Bakr and Um Sulaim both lifting their 
dresses up so that I was able to see the ornaments of their legs, and they were carrying the water skins 
of their arms to pour the water into the mouths of the thirsty people and then go back and fill them and 
come to pour the water into the mouths of the people again. (On that day) Abu Talha's sword fell from 
his hand twice or thrice.
Bukhari:3812 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:I have never heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying about anybody walking on the earth that he is from the people 
of Paradise except `Abdullah bin Salam. The following Verse was revealed concerning him: "And a 
witness from the children of Israel testifies that this Qur'an is true" (46.10)
Bukhari:3813 Narrated Qais bin Ubad:While I was sitting in the Mosque of Medina, there entered a man (Abdullah bin Salam) with signs of 
solemnity over his face. The people said, "He is one of the people of Paradise." He prayed two light 
rak`at and then left. I followed him and said, "When you entered the Mosque, the people said, 'He is 
one of the people of Paradise.' " He said, "By Allah, one ought not say what he does not know; and I 
will tell you why. In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) I had a dream which I narrated to him. I saw as if I 
were in a garden." He then described its extension and greenery. He added: In its center there was an 
iron pillar whose lower end was fixed in the earth and the upper end was in the sky, and at its upper 
end there was a (ring-shaped) hand-hold. I was told to climb it. I said, "I can't." "Then a servant came 
to me and lifted my clothes from behind and I climbed till I reached the top (of the pillar). Then I got 
hold of the hand-hold, and I was told to hold it tightly, then I woke up and (the effect of) the handhold 
was in my hand. I narrated al I that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, 'The garden is Islam, and the handhold 
is the Most Truth-worthy Hand-Hold. So you will remain as a Muslim till you die." The narrator 
added: "The man was `Abdullah bin Salam."
Bukhari:3814 Narrated Abu Burda:When I came to Medina. I met `Abdullah bin Salam. He said, "Will you come to me so that I may 
serve you with Sawiq (i.e. powdered barley) and dates, and let you enter a (blessed) house that in 
which the Prophet (ﷺ) entered?" Then he added, "You are In a country where the practice of Riba (i.e. 
usury) is prevalent; so if somebody owe you something and he sends you a present of a load of 
chopped straw or a load of barley or a load of provender then do not take it, as it is Riba."
Bukhari:3815 Narrated `Ali:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying (as below)Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best of the world's women is Mary (at her lifetime), and the best of the world's 
women is Khadija (at her lifetime).
Bukhari:3816 Narrated `Aisha:I did not feel jealous of any of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) as much as I did of Khadija (although) she 
died before he married me, for I often heard him mentioning her, and Allah had told him to give her 
the good tidings that she would have a palace of Qasab (i.e. pipes of precious stones and pearls in 
Paradise), and whenever he slaughtered a sheep, he would send her women-friends a good share of it.
Bukhari:3817 Narrated `Aisha:I did not feel jealous of any woman as much as I did of Khadija because Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to 
mention her very often. He married me after three years of her death, and his Lord (or Gabriel) 
ordered him to give her the good news of having a palace of Qasab in Paradise.
Bukhari:3818 Narrated `Aisha:I did not feel jealous of any of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) as much as I did of Khadija though I did not 
see her, but the Prophet (ﷺ) used to mention her very often, and when ever he slaughtered a sheep, he 
would cut its parts and send them to the women friends of Khadija. When I sometimes said to him, 
"(You treat Khadija in such a way) as if there is no woman on earth except Khadija," he would say, 
"Khadija was such-and-such, and from her I had children."
Bukhari:3819 Narrated Isma`il:I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) give glad tidings to Khadija?" He said, "Yes, of a 
palace of Qasab (in Paradise) where there will be neither any noise nor any fatigue."
Bukhari:3820 Narrated Abu Huraira:Gabriel came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is Khadija coming to you with a dish having meat soup (or some food or drink). When she reaches you, greet her on behalf of her Lord (i.e. Allah) and on my behalf, and give her the glad tidings of having a Qasab palace in Paradise wherein there will be neither any noise nor any fatigue (trouble) . "
Bukhari:3821 Narrated 'Aisha:Once Hala bint Khuwailid, Khadija's sister, asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to enter. On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) remembered the way Khadija used to ask permission, and that upset him. He said, "O Allah! Hala!" So I became jealous and said, "What makes you remember an old woman amongst the old women of Quraish an old woman (with a teethless mouth) of red gums who died long ago, and in whose place Allah has given you somebody better than her?"
Bukhari:3822 Narrated Jarir bin 'Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has never refused to admit me since I embraced Islam, and whenever he saw me, he would smile.
Bukhari:3823 Jarir bin 'Abdullah narrated:There was a house called Dhul-Khalasa in the Pre-lslamic Period and it was also called Al-Ka'ba Al-Yamaniya or Al-Ka'ba Ash-Shamiya. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Will you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa?" So I left for it with 150 cavalrymen from the tribe of Ahmas and then we destroyed it and killed whoever we found there. Then we came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him about it. He invoked good upon us and upon the tribe of Ahmas.
Bukhari:3824 Narrated `Aisha:On the day of the battle of Uhud the pagans were defeated completely. Then Satan shouted loudly, "O 
Allah's slaves! Beware the ones behind you!" So the front files attacked the back ones. Then Hudhaifa 
looked and saw his father, and said loudly, "O Allah's slaves! My father! My father!" By Allah, they 
did not stop till they killed him (i.e. Hudaifa's father). Hudhaifa said, "May Allah forgive you!" The 
sub-narrator said, "By Allah, because of what Hudhaifa said, he remained in a good state till he met 
Allah (i.e. died).
Bukhari:3825 Narrated 'Aishah (ra):Hind bint 'Utba came and said, "O Allah's Messenger! (Before I embraced Islam) there was no family on the surface of the earth I wished to see in degradation more than I did your family, but today there is no family on the surface of the earth I wish to see honored more than I did yours." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I thought similarly, by Him in whose Hand my soul is!" She further said, "O Allah's Messenger ! Abu Sufyan is a miser, so, is it sinful of me to feed my children from his property ?" He said, "I do not allow it unless you take for your needs what is just and reasonable."
Bukhari:3826 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) met Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail in the bottom of (the valley of) Baldah before any Divine Inspiration came to the Prophet. A meal was presented to the Prophet (ﷺ) but he refused to eat from it. (Then it was presented to Zaid) who said, "I do not eat anything which you slaughter in the name of your stone idols. I eat none but those things on which Allah's Name has been mentioned at the time of slaughtering." Zaid bin 'Amr used to criticize the way Quraish used to slaughter their animals, and used to say, "Allah has created the sheep and He has sent the water for it from the sky, and He has grown the grass for it from the earth; yet you slaughter it in other than the Name of Allah. He used to say so, for he rejected that practice and considered it as something abominable.
Bukhari:3827 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail went to Sham, inquiring about a true religion to follow. He met a Jewish religious scholar and asked him about their religion. He said, "I intend to embrace your religion, so tell me some thing about it." The Jew said, "You will not embrace our religion unless you receive your share of Allah's Anger." Zaid said, "'I do not run except from Allah's Anger, and I will never bear a bit of it if I have the power to avoid it. Can you tell me of some other religion?" He said, "I do not know any other religion except the Hanif." Zaid enquired, "What is Hanif?" He said, "Hanif is the religion of (the prophet) Abraham who was neither a Jew nor a Christian, and he used to worship None but Allah (Alone)" Then Zaid went out and met a Christian religious scholar and told him the same as before. The Christian said, "You will not embrace our religion unless you get a share of Allah's Curse." Zaid replied, "I do not run except from Allah's Curse, and I will never bear any of Allah's Curse and His Anger if I have the power to avoid them. Will you tell me of some other religion?" He replied, "I do not know any other religion except Hanif." Zaid enquired, "What is Hanif?" He replied, Hanif is the religion of (the prophet) Abraham who was neither a Jew nor a Christian and he used to worship None but Allah (Alone)" When Zaid heard their Statement about (the religion of) Abraham, he left that place, and when he came out, he raised both his hands and said, "O Allah! I make You my Witness that I am on the religion of Abraham."
Bukhari:3828 Narrated Asma bint Abi Bakr:I saw Zaid bin Amr bin Nufail standing with his back against the Ka'ba and saying, "O people of Quraish! By Allah, none amongst you is on the religion of Abraham except me." He used to preserve the lives of little girls: If somebody wanted to kill his daughter he would say to him, "Do not kill her for I will feed her on your behalf." So he would take her, and when she grew up nicely, he would say to her father, "Now if you want her, I will give her to you, and if you wish, I will feed her on your behalf."
Bukhari:3829 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:When the Ka`ba was rebuilt, the Prophet (ﷺ) and `Abbas went to carry stones. `Abbas said to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
"(Take off and) put your waist sheet over your neck so that the stones may not hurt you." (But as soon 
as he took off his waist sheet) he fell unconscious on the ground with both his eyes towards the sky. 
When he came to his senses, he said, "My waist sheet! My waist sheet!" Then he tied his waist sheet 
(round his waist).
Bukhari:3830 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar and 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Yazid:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) there was no wall around the Ka`ba and the people used to pray around 
the Ka`ba till `Umar became the Caliph and he built the wall around it. 'Ubaidullah further said, "Its 
wall was low, so Ibn Az-Zubair built it."
Bukhari:3831 Narrated `Aisha:'Ashura' (i.e. the tenth of Muharram) was a day on which the tribe of Quraish used to fast in the prelslamic 
period of ignorance. The Prophet (ﷺ) also used to fast on this day. So when he migrated to 
Medina, he fasted on it and ordered (the Muslims) to fast on it. When the fasting of Ramadan was 
enjoined, it became optional for the people to fast or not to fast on the day of Ashura.
Bukhari:3832 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The people used to consider the performance of `Umra in the months of Hajj an evil deed on the earth, 
and they used to call the month of Muharram as Safar and used to say, "When (the wounds over) the 
backs (of the camels) have healed and the foot-marks (of the camels) have vanished (after coming 
from Hajj), then `Umra becomes legal for the one who wants to perform `Umra." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and 
his companions reached Mecca assuming Ihram for Hajj on the fourth of Dhul-Hijja. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
ordered his companions to perform `Umra (with that lhram instead of Hajj). They asked, "O Allah's 
Apostle! What kind of finishing of Ihram?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Finish the Ihram completely.'
Bukhari:3833 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab's grand-father:In the pre-lslamic period of ignorance a flood of rain came and filled the valley in between the two 
mountains (around the Ka`ba).
Bukhari:3834 Narrated Qais bin Abi Hazim:Abu Bakr went to a lady from the Ahmas tribe called Zainab bint Al-Muhajir and found that she 
refused to speak. He asked, "Why does she not speak." The people said, "She has intended to perform 
Hajj without speaking." He said to her, "Speak, for it is illegal not to speak, as it is an action of the 
pre-islamic period of ignorance. So she spoke and said, "Who are you?" He said, "A man from the 
Emigrants." She asked, "Which Emigrants?" He replied, "From Quraish." She asked, "From what 
branch of Quraish are you?" He said, "You ask too many questions; I am Abu Bakr." She said, "How 
long shall we enjoy this good order (i.e. Islamic religion) which Allah has brought after the period of 
ignorance?" He said, "You will enjoy it as long as your Imams keep on abiding by its rules and 
regulations." She asked, "What are the Imams?" He said, "Were there not heads and chiefs of your 
nation who used to order the people and they used to obey them?" She said, "Yes." He said, "So they 
(i.e. the Imams) are those whom I meant."
Bukhari:3835 Narrated `Aisha:A black lady slave of some of the 'Arabs embraced Islam and she had a hut in the mosque. She used to 
visit us and talk to us, and when she finished her talk, she used to say: "The day of the scarf was one 
of our Lord's wonders: Verily! He has delivered me from the land of Kufr." When she said the above 
verse many times, I (i.e. `Aisha) asked her, "What was the day of the scarf?" She replied, "Once the 
daughter of some of my masters went out and she was wearing a leather scarf (round her neck) and the 
leather scarf fell from her and a kite descended and picked it up, mistaking it for a piece of meat. They 
(i.e. my masters) accused me of stealing it and they tortured me to such an extent that they even 
looked for it in my private parts. So, while they all were around me, and I was in my great distress, 
suddenly the kite came over our heads and threw the scarf, and they took it. I said to them 'This is 
what you accused me of stealing, though I was innocent."
Bukhari:3836 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anybody has to take an oath, he should swear only by Allah." The people of 
Quraish used to swear by their fathers, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers. "
Bukhari:3837 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim:Al-Qasim used to walk in front of the funeral procession. He used not to get up for the funeral 
procession (in case it passed by him). And he narrated from `Aisha that she said, "The people of the 
pre-lslamic period of ignorance used to stand up for the funeral procession. When they saw it they 
used to say twice: 'You were noble in your family. What are you now?"
Bukhari:3838 Narrated `Umar:The pagans used not to leave Jam' (i.e. Muzdalifa) till the sun had risen on Thabir mountain. The 
Prophet contradicted them by leaving (Muzdalifa) before the sun rose.
Bukhari:3839 Narrated Husain:That `Ikrima said, "Kasan Dihaqa means glass full (of something) followed successively with other 
full glasses."
Bukhari:3840 Ibn `Abbas said:"In the pre-lslamic period of ignorance I heard my father saying, 
"Provide us with Kasan Dihaqa."
Bukhari:3841 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most true words said by a poet was the words of Labid." He said, Verily, 
Everything except Allah is perishable and Umaiya bin As-Salt was about to be a Muslim (but he did 
not embrace Islam).
Bukhari:3842 Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr had a slave who used to give him some of his earnings. Abu Bakr used to eat from it. One 
day he brought something and Abu Bakr ate from it. The slave said to him, "Do you know what this 
is?" Abu Bakr then enquired, "What is it?" The slave said, "Once, in the pre-Islamic period of 
ignorance I foretold somebody's future though I did not know this knowledge of foretelling but I, 
cheated him, and when he met me, he gave me something for that service, and that is what you have 
eaten from." Then Abu Bakr put his hand in his mouth and vomited whatever was present in his 
stomach.
Bukhari:3843 Narrated Ibn `Umar:In the pre-lslamic period of ignorance the people used to bargain with the meat of camels on the 
principle of Habal-al-Habala which meant the sale of a she-camel that would be born by a she-camel 
that had not yet been born. The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade them such a transaction.
Bukhari:3844 Narrated Ghailan bin Jarir:We used to visit Anas bin Malik and he used to talk to us about the Ansar, and used to say to me: 
"Your people did so-and-so on such-and-such a day, and your people did so-and-so on such-and-such 
a day."
Bukhari:3845 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The first event of Qasama in the pre-lslamic period of ignorance was practiced by us (i.e. Banu 
Hashim). A man from Banu Hashim was employed by a Quraishi man from another branch-family. 
The (Hashimi) laborer set out with the Quraishi driving his camels. There passed by him another man 
from Banu Hashim. The leather rope of the latter's bag had broken so he said to the laborer, "Will you 
help me by giving me a rope in order to tie the handle of my bag lest the camels should run away from 
me?" The laborer gave him a rope and the latter tied his bag with it. When the caravan halted, all the 
camels' legs were tied with their fetters except one camel. The employer asked the laborer, "Why, 
from among all the camels has this camel not been fettered?" He replied, "There is no fetter for it." 
The Quraishi asked, "Where is its fetter?" and hit the laborer with a stick that caused his death (later 
on Just before his death) a man from Yemen passed by him. The laborer asked (him), "Will you go for 
the pilgrimage?" He replied, "I do not think I will attend it, but perhaps I will attend it." The (Hashimi) 
laborer said, "Will you please convey a message for me once in your life?" The other man said, "yes." 
The laborer wrote: 'When you attend the pilgrimage, call the family of Quraish, and if they respond to 
you, call the family of Banu Hashim, and if they respond to you, ask about Abu Talib and tell him that 
so-and-so has killed me for a fetter." Then the laborer expired. When the employer reached (Mecca), 
Abu Talib visited him and asked, "What has happened to our companion?" He said, "He became ill 
and I looked after him nicely (but he died) and I buried him." Then Abu Talib said, "The deceased 
deserved this from you." After some time, the messenger whom the laborer has asked to convey the 
message, reached during the pilgrimage season. He called, "O the family of Quraish!" The people 
replied, "This is Quraish." Then he called, "O the family of Banu Hashim!" Again the people replied, 
"This is Banu Hashim." He asked, "Who is Abu Talib?" The people replied, "This is Abu Talib." He 
said, "'So-and-so has asked me to convey a message to you that so-and-so has killed him for a fetter 
(of a camel)." Then Abu Talib went to the (Quraishi) killer and said to him, "Choose one of three 
alternatives: (i) If you wish, give us one-hundred camels because you have murdered our companion, 
(ii) or if you wish, fifty of your men should take an oath that you have not murdered our companion, 
and if you do not accept this, (iii) we will kill you in Qisas." The killer went to his people and they 
said, "We will take an oath." 
Then a woman from Banu Hashim who was married to one of them (i.e.the Quraishis) and had given 
birth to a child from him, came to Abu Talib and said, "O Abu Talib! I wish that my son from among 
the fifty men, should be excused from this oath, and that he should not take the oath where the oathtaking 
is carried on." Abu Talib excused him. Then another man from them came (to Abu Talib) and 
said, "O Abu Talib! You want fifty persons to take an oath instead of giving a hundred camels, and 
that means each man has to give two camels (in case he does not take an oath). So there are two 
camels I would like you to accept from me and excuse me from taking an oath where the oaths are 
taken. Abu Talib accepted them from him. Then 48 men came and took the oath. Ibn `Abbas further 
said:) By Him in Whose Hand my life is, before the end of that year, none of those 48 persons 
remained alive.
Bukhari:3846 Narrated 'Aisha:Allah caused the day of Buath to take place before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sent (as an Apostle) so that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached Medina, those people had already divided (in different groups) and their chiefs had been killed or wounded. So Allah made that day precede Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so that they (i.e. the Ansar) might embrace Islam.
Bukhari:3847 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:To run along the valley between two green pillars of Safa and Marwa (mountains) was not Sunna, but the people in the pre-islamic period of ignorance used to run along it, and used to say: "We do not cross this rain stream except running strongly. "
Bukhari:3848 Narrated Abu As-Safar:I heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "O people! Listen to what I say to you, and let me hear whatever you say, 
and don't go (without understanding), and start saying, 'Ibn `Abbas said so-and-so, Ibn `Abbas said soand- 
so, Ibn `Abbas said so-and-so.' He who wants to perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba should go 
behind Al-Hijr (i.e. a portion of the Ka`ba left out unroofed) and do not call it Al-Hatim, for in the 
pre-Islamic period of ignorance if any man took an oath, he used to throw his whip, shoes or bow in it.
Bukhari:3849 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:During the pre-lslamic period of ignorance I saw a she-monkey surrounded by a number of monkeys. 
They were all stoning it, because it had committed illegal sexual intercourse. I too, stoned it along 
with them.
Bukhari:3850 Narrated Sufyan:'Ubaidullah said: "I heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "Following are some traits of the people of the pre- 
Islamic period of ignorance (i) to defame the ancestry of other families, (ii) and to wail over the dead." 
'Ubaidullah forgot the third trait. Sufyan said, "They say it (i.e. the third trait) was to believe that rain 
was caused by the influence of stars (i.e. if a special star appears it will rain).
Bukhari:3851 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was inspired Divinely at the age of forty. Then he stayed in Mecca for thirteen years, 
and then was ordered to migrate, and he migrated to Medina and stayed there for ten years and then 
died.
Bukhari:3852 Narrated Khabbaba:I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was leaning against his sheet cloak in the shade of the Ka`ba. We were 
suffering greatly from the pagans in those days. i said (to him). "Will you invoke Allah (to help us)?" 
He sat down with a red face and said, "(A believer among) those who were before you used to be 
combed with iron combs so that nothing of his flesh or nerves would remain on his bones; yet that 
would never make him desert his religion. A saw might be put over the parting of his head which 
would be split into two parts, yet all that would never make him abandon his religion. Allah will 
surely complete this religion (i.e. Islam) so that a traveler from Sana to Hadra-maut will not be afraid 
of anybody except Allah." (The sub-narrator, Baiyan added, "Or the wolf, lest it should harm his 
sheep.")
Bukhari:3853 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat An-Najam and prostrated, and there was nobody who did not prostrate then 
except a man whom I saw taking a handful of pebbles, lifting it, and prostrating on it. He then said, 
"This is sufficient for me." No doubt I saw him killed as a disbeliever afterwards.
Bukhari:3854 Narrated `Abdullah:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was prostrating, surrounded by some of Quraish, `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait brought the 
intestines (i.e. Abdominal contents) of a camel and put them over the back of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
did not raise his head, (till) Fatima, came and took it off his back and cursed the one who had done the 
harm. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Destroy the chiefs of Quraish, Abu Jahl bin Hisham, `Utba bin 
Rabi`al, Shaba bin Rabi`a, Umaiya bin Khalaf or Ubai bin Khalaf." (The sub-narrator Shu`ba, is not 
sure of the last name.) I saw these people killed on the day of Badr battle and thrown in the well 
except Umaiya or Ubai whose body parts were mutilated but he was not thrown in the well.
Bukhari:3855 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:`AbdurRahman bin Abza said, "Ask Ibn `Abbas about these two Qur'anic Verses: 'Nor kill such life as 
Allah has made sacred, Except for just cause.' (25.168) "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, 
his recompense is Hell. (4.93) 
So I asked Ibn `Abbas who said, "When the Verse that is in Sura-al-Furqan was revealed, the pagans 
of Mecca said, 'But we have slain such life as Allah has made sacred, and we have invoked other gods 
along with Allah, and we have also committed fornication.' So Allah revealed:-- 'Except those who 
repent, believe, and do good-- (25.70) 
So this Verse was concerned with those people. As for the Verse in Surat-an-Nisa (4-93), it means that 
if a man, after understanding Islam and its laws and obligations, murders somebody, then his 
punishment is to dwell in the (Hell) Fire forever." Then I mentioned this to Mujahid who said, 
"Except the one who regrets (one's crime) . "
Bukhari:3856 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:I asked Ibn `Amr bin Al-As, "Tell me of the worst thing which the pagans did to the Prophet." He 
said, "While the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying in the Hijr of the Ka`ba; `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait came and put his 
garment around the Prophet's neck and throttled him violently. Abu Bakr came and caught him by his 
shoulder and pushed him away from the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Do you want to kill a man just because he 
says, 'My Lord is Allah?' "
Bukhari:3857 Narrated `Ammar bin Yasir:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and the only converts (to Islam) with him, were five slaves, two women and 
Abu Bakr.
Bukhari:3858 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq Saud bin Abi Waqqas:None embraced Islam, except on the day I embraced it. And for seven days I was one of the three 
persons who were Muslims (one-third of Islam).
Bukhari:3859 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman:"I asked Masruq, 'Who informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about the Jinns at the night when they heard the Qur'an?' 
He said, 'Your father `Abdullah informed me that a tree informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about them.' "
Bukhari:3860 Narrated Abu Huraira:That once he was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) carrying a water pot for his ablution and for cleaning 
his private parts. While he was following him carrying it (i.e. the pot), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who is this?" 
He said, "I am Abu Huraira." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bring me stones in order to clean my private parts, 
and do not bring any bones or animal dung." Abu Huraira went on narrating: So I brought some 
stones, carrying them in the corner of my robe till I put them by his side and went away. When he 
finished, I walked with him and asked, "What about the bone and the animal dung?" He said, "They 
are of the food of Jinns. The delegate of Jinns of (the city of) Nasibin came to me--and how nice those 
Jinns were--and asked me for the remains of the human food. I invoked Allah for them that they 
would never pass by a bone or animal dung but find food on them."
Bukhari:3861 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When Abu Dhar received the news of the Advent of the Prophet (ﷺ) he said to his brother, "Ride to this 
valley (of Mecca) and try to find out the truth of the person who claims to be a prophet who is 
informed of the news of Heaven. Listen to what he says and come back to me." So his brother set out 
and came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and listened to some of his talks, and returned to Abu Dhar and said to him. 
"I have seen him enjoining virtuous behavior and saying something that is not poetry." Abu Dhar said, 
"You have not satisfied me as to what I wanted." He then took his journey-food and carried a waterskin 
of his, containing some water till be reached Mecca. He went to the Mosque and searched for the 
Prophet and though he did not know him, he hated to ask anybody about him. When a part of the night 
had passed away, `Ali saw him and knew that he was a stranger. 
So when Abu Dhar saw `Ali, he followed him, and none of them asked his companion about anything, 
and when it was dawn, Abu Dhar took his journey food and his water-skin to the Mosque and stayed 
there all the day long without being perceived by the Prophet, and when it was evening, he came back 
to his retiring place. `Ali passed by him and said, "Has the man not known his dwelling place yet?" So 
`Ali awakened him and took him with him and none of them spoke to the other about anything. When 
it was the third day. `Ali did the same and Abu Dhar stayed with him. Then `Ali said "Will you tell me 
what has brought you here?" Abu Dhar said, "If you give me a firm promise that you will guide me, 
then I will tell you." `Ali promised him, and he informed `Ali about the matter. 
`Ali said, "It is true, and he is the Messenger of Allah. Next morning when you get up, accompany me, 
and if I see any danger for you, I will stop as if to pass water, but if I go on, follow me and enter the 
place which I will enter." Abu Dhar did so, and followed `Ali till he entered the place of the Prophet, 
and Abu Dhar went in with him, Abu Dhar listened to some of the Prophet's talks and embraced Islam 
on the spot. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Go back to your people and inform them (about it) till you 
receive my order." Abu Dhar said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, I will proclaim my conversion 
loudly amongst them (i.e. the pagans)." So he went out, and when he reached the Mosque, he said as 
loudly as possible, "I bear witness that None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, and 
Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah." The People got up and beat him painfully. 
Then Al-Abbas came and knelt over him ((to protect him) and said (to the people), "Woe to you! 
Don't you know that this man belongs to the tribe of Ghifar and your trade to Sha'm is through their 
way?" So he rescued him from them. Abu Dhar again did the same the next day. They beat him and 
took vengeance on him and again Al-Abbas knelt over him (to protect him).
Bukhari:3862 Narrated Qais:I heard Sa`id bin Zaid bin `Amr bin Nufail saying in the mosque of Al-Kufa. "By Allah, I have seen 
myself tied and forced by `Umar to leave Islam before `Umar himself embraced Islam. And if the 
mountain of Uhud could move from its place for the evil which you people have done to `Uthman, 
then it would have the right to move from its place."
Bukhari:3863 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mus'ud:We have been powerful since `Umar embraced Islam.
Bukhari:3864 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:While `Umar was at home in a state of fear, there came Al-`As bin Wail As-Sahmi Abu `Amr, 
wearing an embroidered cloak and a shirt having silk hems. He was from the tribe of Bani Sahm who 
were our allies during the pre-Islamic period of ignorance. Al-`As said to `Umar "What is wrong with 
you?" He said, "Your people claim that they would kill me if I become a Muslim." Al-`As said, 
"Nobody will harm you after I have given protection to you." So Al-`As went out and met the people 
streaming in the whole valley. He said, "Where are you going?" They said, "We want Ibn Al-Khattab 
who has embraced Islam." Al-`As said, "There is no way for anybody to touch him." So the people 
retreated.
Bukhari:3865 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:When `Umar embraced Islam, all The (disbelieving) people gathered around his home and said, 
"`Umar has embraced Islam." At that time I was still a boy and was on the roof of my house. There 
came a man wearing a cloak of Dibaj (i.e. a kind of silk), and said, "`Umar has embraced Islam. 
Nobody can harm him for I am his protector." I then saw the people going away from `Umar and 
asked who the man was, and they said, "Al-`As bin Wail."
Bukhari:3866 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I never heard `Umar saying about something that he thought it would be so-and-so, but he was quite 
right. Once, while `Umar was sitting, a handsome man passed by him, `Umar said, "If I am not wrong, 
this person is still on his religion of the pre-lslamic period of ignorance or he was their foreteller. Call 
the man to me." When the man was called to him, he told him of his thought. The man said, "I have 
never seen such a day on which a Muslim is faced with such an accusation." `Umar said, "I am 
determined that you should tell me the truth." He said, "I was a foreteller in the pre-lslamic period of 
ignorance." Then `Umar said, "Tell me the most astonishing thing your female Jinn has told you of." 
He said, "One-day while I was in the market, she came to me scared and said, 'Haven't you seen the 
Jinns and their despair and they were overthrown after their defeat (and prevented from listening to 
the news of the heaven) so that they (stopped going to the sky and) kept following camel-riders (i.e. 
'Arabs)?" `Umar said, "He is right." and added, "One day while I was near their idols, there came a 
man with a calf and slaughtered it as a sacrifice (for the idols). An (unseen) creature shouted at him, 
and I have never heard harsher than his voice. He was crying, 'O you bold evil-doer! A matter of 
success! An eloquent man is saying: None has the right to be worshipped except you (O Allah).' On 
that the people fled, but I said, 'I shall not go away till I know what is behind this.' Then the cry came 
again: 'O you bold evil-doer! A matter of success! An eloquent man is saying: None has the right to be 
worshipped except Allah.' I then went away and a few days later it was said, "A prophet has 
appeared."
Bukhari:3867 Narrated Qais:I heard Sa`id bin Zaid saying to the people, "If you but saw me and `Umar's sister tied and forced by 
`Umar to leave Islam while he was not yet a Muslim. And if the mountain of Uhud could move from 
its place for the evil which you people have done to `Uthman, it would have the right to do that."
Bukhari:3868 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The people of Mecca asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to show them a miracle. So he showed them the moon 
split in two halves between which they saw the Hira' mountain.
Bukhari:3869 Narrated `Abdullah:The moon was split ( into two pieces ) while we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Mina. He said, "Be 
witnesses." Then a Piece of the moon went towards the mountain.
Bukhari:3870 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the moon was split (into two places).
Bukhari:3871 Narrated `Abdullah:The moon was split (into two pieces).
Bukhari:3872 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Adi bin Al-Khiyar:That Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth had said to him, 
"What prevents you from speaking to your uncle `Uthman regarding his brother Al-Walid bin `Uqba?" 
The people were speaking against the latter for what he had done. 'Ubaidullah said, "So I kept waiting 
for `Uthman, and when he went out for the prayer, I said to him, 'I have got something to say to you as 
a piece of advice.' `Uthman said, 'O man! I seek Refuge with Allah from you. So I went away. When I 
finished my prayer, I sat with Al-Miswar and Ibn 'Abu Yaghutb and talked to both of them of what I 
had said to `Uthman and what he had said to me. They said, 'You have done your duty.' So while I 
was sitting with them. `Uthman's Messenger came to me. They said, 'Allah has put you to trial." 
I set out and when I reached `Uthman, he said, 'What is your advice which you mentioned a while 
ago?' I recited Tashahhud and added, 'Allah has sent Muhammad and has revealed the Holy Book (i.e. 
Qur'an) to him. You (O `Uthman!) were amongst those who responded to the call of Allah and His 
Apostle and had faith in him. And you took part in the first two migrations (to Ethiopia and to 
Medina), and you enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and learned his traditions and advice. Now 
the people are talking much about Al-Walid bin `Uqba and so it is your duty to impose on him the 
legal punishment.' `Uthman then said to me, 'O my nephew! Did you ever meet Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?' I 
said, 'No, but his knowledge has reached me as it has reached the virgin in her seclusion.' 
`Uthman then recited Tashahhud and said, 'No doubt, Allah has sent Muhammad with the Truth and 
has revealed to him His Holy Book (i.e. Qur'an) and I was amongst those who responded to the call of 
Allah and His Apostle and I had faith in Muhammad's Mission, and I had performed the first two 
migrations as you have said, and I enjoyed the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and gave the pledge of 
allegiance to him. By Allah, I never disobeyed him and never cheated him till Allah caused him to die. 
Then Allah made Abu Bakr Caliph, and by Allah, I was never disobedient to him, nor did I cheat him. 
Then `Umar became Caliph, and by Allah, I was never disobedient to him, nor did I cheat him. Then I 
became Caliph. Have I not then the same rights over you as they had over me?' I replied in the 
affirmative. `Uthman further said, 'The what are these talks which are reaching me from you? As for 
what you ha mentioned about Al-Walid bin 'Uqb; Allah willing, I shall give him the leg; punishment 
justly. Then `Uthman ordered that Al-Walid be flogged fort lashes. He ordered `Ali to flog him an he 
himself flogged him as well."
Bukhari:3873 Narrated `Aisha:Um Habiba and Um Salama mentioned a church they had seen in Ethiopia and in the church there 
were pictures. When they told the Prophet (ﷺ) of this, he said, "Those people are such that if a pious man 
amongst them died, they build a place of worship over his grave and paint these pictures in it. Those 
people will be Allah's worst creatures on the Day of Resurrection . "
Bukhari:3874 Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid:When I came from Ethiopia (to Medina), I was a young girl. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made me wear a sheet 
having marks on it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was rubbing those marks with his hands saying, "Sanah! Sanah!" 
(i.e. good, good).
Bukhari:3875 Narrated `Abdullah:We used to greet the Prophet (ﷺ) while he used to be in prayers, and he used to reply to our greetings. But 
when we came back from Najashi (the King of Ethiopia) we greeted him (while he was praying) and 
he did not reply to us. We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We used to greet you in the past and you used to 
reply to us." He said, "Verily The Mind is occupied and busy with more important matter during the 
prayer." (So one cannot return One's greetings.)
Bukhari:3876 Narrated Abu Musa:We received the news of the departure of the Prophet (to Medina) while we were in Yemen. So we 
went on board a ship but our ship took us away to An-Najashi (the Negus) in Ethiopia. There we met 
Ja`far bin Abi Talib and stayed with him till we came (to Medina) by the time when the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
conquered Khaibar. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O you people of the ship! You will have (the reward of) two 
migrations."
Bukhari:3877 Narrated Jabir:When Negus died, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Today a pious man has died. So get up and offer the funeral 
prayer for your brother Ashama."
Bukhari:3878 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led the funeral prayer for the Negus and made us stand in rows behind him and I was 
in the second or third row.
Bukhari:3879 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for Ashama, the Negus, with four Takbir.
Bukhari:3880 Narrated Abu Huraira:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed them (i.e. his companions) of the death of Negus, the king of Ethiopia, 
on the very day on which the latter died, and said, "Ask Allah's Forgiveness for your brother"
Bukhari:3881 Abu 
Huraira further said:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made them (i.e. the Muslims) stand in rows at the Musalla (i.e. praying place) and led the funeral prayer for the Negus and said four Takbir."
Bukhari:3882 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), while going out for the battle of Hunain, said, "Tomorrow Allah willing, we will 
encamp at Khaif Bani Kinana where the pagans(of Quraish) took the oath of Kufr (against the Prophet (ﷺ) 
i.e. to be loyal to heathenism, by boycotting Banu Hashim, the Prophet's folk. (SeeHadith 1589)
Bukhari:3883 Narrated Al-Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib:That he said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "You have not been of any avail to your uncle (Abu Talib) (though) by 
Allah, he used to protect you and used to become angry on your behalf." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He is in a 
shallow fire, and had It not been for me, he would have been in the bottom of the (Hell) Fire."
Bukhari:3884 Narrated Al-Musaiyab:When Abu Talib was in his death bed, the Prophet (ﷺ) went to him while Abu Jahl was sitting beside him. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O my uncle! Say: None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, an expression 
I will defend your case with, before Allah." Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Umaiya said, "O Abu Talib! 
Will you leave the religion of `Abdul Muttalib?" So they kept on saying this to him so that the last 
statement he said to them (before he died) was: "I am on the religion of `Abdul Muttalib." Then the 
Prophet said, " I will keep on asking for Allah's Forgiveness for you unless I am forbidden to do so." 
Then the following Verse was revealed:-- 
"It is not fitting for the Prophet (ﷺ) and the believers to ask Allah's Forgiveness for the pagans, even if 
they were their near relatives, after it has become clear to them that they are the dwellers of the (Hell) 
Fire." (9.113) 
The other Verse was also revealed:-- "(O Prophet!) Verily, you guide not whom you like, but Allah 
guides whom He will ......." (28.56)
Bukhari:3885 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) when somebody mentioned his uncle (i.e. Abu Talib), saying, "Perhaps my 
intercession will be helpful to him on the Day of Resurrection so that he may be put in a shallow fire 
reaching only up to his ankles. His brain will boil from it."Narrated Yazid:(as above, Hadith 224) using the words: "will make his brain boil."
Bukhari:3886 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "When the people of Quraish did not believe me (i.e. the story 
of my Night Journey), I stood up in Al-Hijr and Allah displayed Jerusalem in front of me, and I began 
describing it to them while I was looking at it."
Bukhari:3887 Narrated `Abbas bin Malik:Malik bin Sasaa said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) described to them his Night Journey saying, "While I was 
lying in Al-Hatim or Al-Hijr, suddenly someone came to me and cut my body open from here to 
here." I asked Al-Jarud who was by my side, "What does he mean?" He said, "It means from his throat 
to his pubic area," or said, "From the top of the chest." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "He then took out my 
heart. Then a gold tray of Belief was brought to me and my heart was washed and was filled (with 
Belief) and then returned to its original place. Then a white animal which was smaller than a mule and 
bigger than a donkey was brought to me." (On this Al-Jarud asked, "Was it the Buraq, O Abu 
Hamza?" I (i.e. Anas) replied in the affirmative). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The animal's step (was so wide 
that it) reached the farthest point within the reach of the animal's sight. I was carried on it, and Gabriel 
set out with me till we reached the nearest heaven. 
When he asked for the gate to be opened, it was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel answered, 'Gabriel.' It was 
asked, 'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has Muhammad 
been called?' Gabriel replied in the affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed. What an excellent 
visit his is!' The gate was opened, and when I went over the first heaven, I saw Adam there. Gabriel 
said (to me). 'This is your father, Adam; pay him your greetings.' So I greeted him and he returned the 
greeting to me and said, 'You are welcomed, O pious son and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended 
with me till we reached the second heaven. Gabriel asked for the gate to be opened. It was asked, 
'Who is it?' Gabriel answered, 'Gabriel.' It was asked, 'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 
'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel answered in the affirmative. Then it was 
said, 'He is welcomed. What an excellent visit his is!' The gate was opened. 
When I went over the second heaven, there I saw Yahya (i.e. John) and `Isa (i.e. Jesus) who were 
cousins of each other. Gabriel said (to me), 'These are John and Jesus; pay them your greetings.' So I 
greeted them and both of them returned my greetings to me and said, 'You are welcomed, O pious 
brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the third heaven and asked for its gate 
to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel.' It was asked, 'Who is accompanying 
you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel replied in the 
affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed, what an excellent visit his is!' The gate was opened, 
and when I went over the third heaven there I saw Joseph. Gabriel said (to me), 'This is Joseph; pay 
him your greetings.' So I greeted him and he returned the greeting to me and said, 'You are welcomed, 
O pious brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the fourth heaven and asked for 
its gate to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel' It was asked, 'Who is 
accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel replied 
in the affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed, what an excel lent visit his is!' 
The gate was opened, and when I went over the fourth heaven, there I saw Idris. Gabriel said (to me), 
'This is Idris; pay him your greetings.' So I greeted him and he returned the greeting to me and said, 
'You are welcomed, O pious brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the fifth 
heaven and asked for its gate to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel.' It was 
asked. 'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' 
Gabriel replied in the affirmative. Then it was said He is welcomed, what an excellent visit his is! So 
when I went over the fifth heaven, there I saw Harun (i.e. Aaron), Gabriel said, (to me). This is Aaron; 
pay him your greetings.' I greeted him and he returned the greeting to me and said, 'You are 
welcomed, O pious brother and pious Prophet.' Then Gabriel ascended with me to the sixth heaven 
and asked for its gate to be opened. It was asked. 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'Gabriel.' It was asked, 
'Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel 
replied in the affirmative. It was said, 'He is welcomed. What an excellent visit his is!' 
When I went (over the sixth heaven), there I saw Moses. Gabriel said (to me),' This is Moses; pay him 
your greeting. So I greeted him and he returned the greetings to me and said, 'You are welcomed, O 
pious brother and pious Prophet.' When I left him (i.e. Moses) he wept. Someone asked him, 'What 
makes you weep?' Moses said, 'I weep because after me there has been sent (as Prophet) a young man 
whose followers will enter Paradise in greater numbers than my followers.' Then Gabriel ascended 
with me to the seventh heaven and asked for its gate to be opened. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel 
replied, 'Gabriel.' It was asked,' Who is accompanying you?' Gabriel replied, 'Muhammad.' It was 
asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel replied in the affirmative. Then it was said, 'He is welcomed. 
What an excellent visit his is!' 
So when I went (over the seventh heaven), there I saw Abraham. Gabriel said (to me), 'This is your 
father; pay your greetings to him.' So I greeted him and he returned the greetings to me and said, 'You 
are welcomed, O pious son and pious Prophet.' Then I was made to ascend to Sidrat-ul-Muntaha (i.e. 
the Lote Tree of the utmost boundary) Behold! Its fruits were like the jars of Hajr (i.e. a place near 
Medina) and its leaves were as big as the ears of elephants. Gabriel said, 'This is the Lote Tree of the 
utmost boundary) . Behold ! There ran four rivers, two were hidden and two were visible, I asked, 
'What are these two kinds of rivers, O Gabriel?' He replied,' As for the hidden rivers, they are two 
rivers in Paradise and the visible rivers are the Nile and the Euphrates.' 
Then Al-Bait-ul-Ma'mur (i.e. the Sacred House) was shown to me and a container full of wine and 
another full of milk and a third full of honey were brought to me. I took the milk. Gabriel remarked, 
'This is the Islamic religion which you and your followers are following.' Then the prayers were 
enjoined on me: They were fifty prayers a day. When I returned, I passed by Moses who asked (me), 
'What have you been ordered to do?' I replied, 'I have been ordered to offer fifty prayers a day.' Moses 
said, 'Your followers cannot bear fifty prayers a day, and by Allah, I have tested people before you, 
and I have tried my level best with Bani Israel (in vain). Go back to your Lord and ask for reduction to 
lessen your followers' burden.' So I went back, and Allah reduced ten prayers for me. Then again I 
came to Moses, but he repeated the same as he had said before. Then again I went back to Allah and 
He reduced ten more prayers. When I came back to Moses he said the same, I went back to Allah and 
He ordered me to observe ten prayers a day. When I came back to Moses, he repeated the same 
advice, so I went back to Allah and was ordered to observe five prayers a day. 
When I came back to Moses, he said, 'What have you been ordered?' I replied, 'I have been ordered to 
observe five prayers a day.' He said, 'Your followers cannot bear five prayers a day, and no doubt, I 
have got an experience of the people before you, and I have tried my level best with Bani Israel, so go 
back to your Lord and ask for reduction to lessen your follower's burden.' I said, 'I have requested so 
much of my Lord that I feel ashamed, but I am satisfied now and surrender to Allah's Order.' When I 
left, I heard a voice saying, 'I have passed My Order and have lessened the burden of My Worshipers."
Bukhari:3888 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Statement of Allah" 
"And We granted the vision (Ascension to the heavens) which We made you see (as an actual eye 
witness) was only made as a trial for the people." (17.60) 
Ibn `Abbas added: The sights which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shown on the Night Journey when he was 
taken to Bait-ulMaqdis (i.e. Jerusalem) were actual sights, (not dreams). And the Cursed Tree 
(mentioned) in the Qur'an is the tree of Zaqqum (itself) .
Bukhari:3889 Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b:Who was Ka`b's guide when Ka`b turned blind: I heard Ka`b bin Malik narrating: When he remained 
behind (i.e. did not Join) the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Ghazwa of Tabuk. Ibn Bukair, in his narration stated that 
Ka`b said, " I witnessed the Al-`Aqaba pledge of allegiance at night with the Prophet (ﷺ) when we jointly 
agreed to support Islam with all our efforts I would not like to have attended the Badr battle instead of 
that 'Aqaba pledge although Badr is more well-known than it, amongst the people."
Bukhari:3890 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I was present with my two maternal uncles at Al-`Aqaba (where the pledge of allegiance was given). 
(Ibn 'Uyaina said, "One of the two was Al-Bara' bin Marur.")
Bukhari:3891 Narrated Jabir:My father, my two maternal uncles and I were among those who took part in the 'Aqaba Pledge.
Bukhari:3892 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:Who had taken part in the battle of Badr with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and had been amongst his companions 
on the night of Al-`Aqaba Pledge: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), surrounded by a group of his companions said, 
"Come along and give me the pledge of allegiance that you will not worship anything besides Allah, 
will not steal, will not commit illegal sexual intercourse will not kill your children, will not utter; 
slander, invented by yourself, and will not disobey me if I order you to do something good. Whoever 
among you will respect and fulfill this pledge, will be rewarded by Allah. And if one of you commits 
any of these sins and is punished in this world then that will be his expiation for it, and if one of you 
commits any of these sins and Allah screens his sin, then his matter, will rest with Allah: If He will, 
He will punish him and if He will,. He will excuse him." So I gave the pledge of allegiance to him for 
these conditions.
Bukhari:3893 Narrated 'Ubada bin As Samit:I was one of the Naqibs who gave the ('Aqaba) Pledge of Allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . We gave the 
pledge of allegiance to him that we would not worship anything other than Allah, would not steal, 
would not commit illegal sexual intercourse, would not kill a person whose killing Allah has made 
illegal except rightfully, would not rob each other, and we would not be promised Paradise jf we did 
the above sins, then if we committed one of the above sins, Allah will give His Judgment concerning 
it.
Bukhari:3894 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) engaged me when I was a girl of six (years). We went to Medina and stayed at the home 
of Bani-al-Harith bin Khazraj. Then I got ill and my hair fell down. Later on my hair grew (again) and 
my mother, Um Ruman, came to me while I was playing in a swing with some of my girl friends. She 
called me, and I went to her, not knowing what she wanted to do to me. She caught me by the hand 
and made me stand at the door of the house. I was breathless then, and when my breathing became 
Allright, she took some water and rubbed my face and head with it. Then she took me into the house. 
There in the house I saw some Ansari women who said, "Best wishes and Allah's Blessing and a good 
luck." Then she entrusted me to them and they prepared me (for the marriage). Unexpectedly Allah's 
Apostle came to me in the forenoon and my mother handed me over to him, and at that time I was a 
girl of nine years of age.
Bukhari:3895 Narrated `Aisha:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "You have been shown to me twice in my dream. I saw you pictured on a 
piece of silk and some-one said (to me). 'This is your wife.' When I uncovered the picture, I saw that it 
was yours. I said, 'If this is from Allah, it will be done."
Bukhari:3896 Narrated Hisham's father:Khadija died three years before the Prophet (ﷺ) departed to Medina. He stayed there for two years or so 
and then he married `Aisha when she was a girl of six years of age, and he consumed that marriage 
when she was nine years old.
Bukhari:3897 Narrated Abu Wail:We visited Khabbaba who said, "We migrated with the Prophet (ﷺ) for Allah's Sake, so our reward 
became due and sure with Allah. Some of us passed away without taking anything of their rewards (in 
this world) and one of them was Mus`ab bin `Umar who was martyred on the day (of the battle) of 
Uhud leaving a striped woolen cloak. When we covered his head with it, his feet became naked, and 
when covered his feet, his head became naked. 
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to cover his head and put some Idhkhir (i.e. a special kind of grass) on 
his feet. (On the other hand) some of us have had their fruits ripened (in this world) and they are 
collecting them."
Bukhari:3898 Narrated `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The reward of deeds depends on the intentions, so whoever emigrated for 
the worldly benefits or to marry a woman, his emigration was for that for which he emigrated, but 
whoever emigrated for the Sake of Allah and His Apostle, his emigration is for Allah and His 
Apostle."
Bukhari:3899 Narrated Mujahid bin Jabir Al-Makki:`Abdullah bin `Umar used to say, "There is no more Hijrah (i.e. migration) after the Conquest of 
Mecca."
Bukhari:3900 Narrated 'Ata bin Abi Rabah:`Ubaid bin `Umar Al-Laithi and I visited Aisha and asked her about the Hijra (i.e. migration), and she 
said, "Today there is no (Hijrah) emigration. A believer used to run away with his religion to Allah 
and His Apostle lest he should be put to trial because of his religion. Today Allah has made Islam 
triumphant, and today a believer can worship his Lord wherever he likes. But the deeds that are still 
rewardable (in place of emigration) are Jihad and good intentions." (See Hadith No. 42 Vol. 4).
Bukhari:3901 Narrated Aisha:Sa`d said, "O Allah! You know that there is none against whom I am eager to fight more willingly for 
Your Cause than those people who disbelieved Your Apostle and drove him out (of his city). O Allah! 
I think that You have ended the fight between us and them."
Bukhari:3902 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started receiving the Divine Inspiration at the age of forty. Then he stayed in Mecca 
for thirteen years, receiving the Divine Revelation. Then he was ordered to migrate and he lived as an 
Emigrant for ten years and then died at the age of sixty-three (years).
Bukhari:3903 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca for thirteen years (after receiving the first Divine Inspiration) and 
died at the age of sixty-three.
Bukhari:3904 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sat on the pulpit and said, "Allah has given one of His Slaves the choice of receiving 
the splendor and luxury of the worldly life whatever he likes or to accept the good (of the Hereafter) 
which is with Allah. So he has chosen that good which is with Allah." On that Abu Bakr wept and 
said, "Our fathers and mothers be sacrificed for you." We became astonished at this. The people said, 
"Look at this old man! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) talks about a Slave of Allah to whom He has given the option 
to choose either the splendor of this worldly life or the good which is with Him, while he says. 'our 
fathers and mothers be sacrifice(i for you." But it was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who had been given option, 
and Abu Bakr knew it better than we. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "No doubt, I am indebted to Abu Bakr 
more than to anybody else regarding both his companionship and his wealth. And if I had to take a 
Khalil from my followers, I would certainly have taken Abu Bakr, but the fraternity of Islam is. 
sufficient. Let no door (i.e. Khoukha) of the Mosque remain open, except the door of Abu Bakr."
Bukhari:3905 Narrated 'Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) I never remembered my parents believing in any religion other than the true religion (i.e. Islam), and (I don't remember) a single day passing without our being visited by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the morning and in the evening. When the Muslims were put to test (i.e. troubled by the pagans), Abu Bakr set out migrating to the land of Ethiopia, and when he reached Bark-al-Ghimad, Ibn Ad-Daghina, the chief of the tribe of Qara, met him and said, "O Abu Bakr! Where are you going?" Abu Bakr replied, "My people have turned me out (of my country), so I want to wander on the earth and worship my Lord." Ibn Ad-Daghina said, "O Abu Bakr! A man like you should not leave his home-land, nor should he be driven out, because you help the destitute, earn their livings, and you keep good relations with your Kith and kin, help the weak and poor, entertain guests generously, and help the calamity-stricken persons. Therefore I am your protector. Go back and worship your Lord in your town."So Abu Bakr returned and Ibn Ad-Daghina accompanied him. In the evening Ibn Ad-Daghina visited the nobles of Quraish and said to them. "A man like Abu Bakr should not leave his homeland, nor should he be driven out. Do you (i.e. Quraish) drive out a man who helps the destitute, earns their living, keeps good relations with his Kith and kin, helps the weak and poor, entertains guests generously and helps the calamity-stricken persons?" So the people of Quraish could not refuse Ibn Ad-Daghina's protection, and they said to Ibn Ad-Daghina, "Let Abu Bakr worship his Lord in his house. He can pray and recite there whatever he likes, but he should not hurt us with it, and should not do it publicly, because we are afraid that he may affect our women and children." Ibn Ad-Daghina told Abu Bakr of all that. Abu Bakr stayed in that state, worshipping his Lord in his house. He did not pray publicly, nor did he recite Quran outside his house.Then a thought occurred to Abu Bakr to build a mosque in front of his house, and there he used to pray and recite the Quran. The women and children of the pagans began to gather around him in great number. They used to wonder at him and look at him. Abu Bakr was a man who used to weep too much, and he could not help weeping on reciting the Quran. That situation scared the nobles of the pagans of Quraish, so they sent for Ibn Ad-Daghina. When he came to them, they said, "We accepted your protection of Abu Bakr on condition that he should worship his Lord in his house, but he has violated the conditions and he has built a mosque in front of his house where he prays and recites the Quran publicly. We are now afraid that he may affect our women and children unfavorably. So, prevent him from that. If he likes to confine the worship of his Lord to his house, he may do so, but if he insists on doing that openly, ask him to release you from your obligation to protect him, for we dislike to break our pact with you, but we deny Abu Bakr the right to announce his act publicly." Ibn Ad-Daghina went to Abu- Bakr and said, ("O Abu Bakr!) You know well what contract I have made on your behalf; now, you are either to abide by it, or else release me from my obligation of protecting you, because I do not want the 'Arabs hear that my people have dishonored a contract I have made on behalf of another man." Abu Bakr replied, "I release you from your pact to protect me, and am pleased with the protection from Allah."At that time the Prophet (ﷺ) was in Mecca, and he said to the Muslims, "In a dream I have been shown your migration place, a land of date palm trees, between two mountains, the two stony tracts." So, some people migrated to Medina, and most of those people who had previously migrated to the land of Ethiopia, returned to Medina. Abu Bakr also prepared to leave for Medina, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Wait for a while, because I hope that I will be allowed to migrate also." Abu Bakr said, "Do you indeed expect this? Let my father be sacrificed for you!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." So Abu Bakr did not migrate for the sake of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in order to accompany him. He fed two she-camels he possessed with the leaves of As-Samur tree that fell on being struck by a stick for four months.One day, while we were sitting in Abu Bakr's house at noon, someone said to Abu Bakr, "This is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with his head covered coming at a time at which he never used to visit us before." Abu Bakr said, "May my parents be sacrificed for him. By Allah, he has not come at this hour except for a great necessity." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came and asked permission to enter, and he was allowed to enter. When he entered, he said to Abu Bakr. "Tell everyone who is present with you to go away." Abu Bakr replied, "There are none but your family. May my father be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "i have been given permission to migrate." Abu Bakr said, "Shall I accompany you? May my father be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Yes." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May my father be sacrificed for you, take one of these two she-camels of mine." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "(I will accept it) with payment." So we prepared the baggage quickly and put some journey food in a leather bag for them. Asma, Abu Bakr's daughter, cut a piece from her waist belt and tied the mouth of the leather bag with it, and for that reason she was named Dhat-un-Nitaqain (i.e. the owner of two belts).Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr reached a cave on the mountain of Thaur and stayed there for three nights. 'Abdullah bin Abi Bakr who was intelligent and a sagacious youth, used to stay (with them) aver night. He used to leave them before day break so that in the morning he would be with Quraish as if he had spent the night in Mecca. He would keep in mind any plot made against them, and when it became dark he would (go and) inform them of it. 'Amir bin Fuhaira, the freed slave of Abu Bakr, used to bring the milch sheep (of his master, Abu Bakr) to them a little while after nightfall in order to rest the sheep there. So they always had fresh milk at night, the milk of their sheep, and the milk which they warmed by throwing heated stones in it. 'Amir bin Fuhaira would then call the herd away when it was still dark (before daybreak). He did the same in each of those three nights. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr had hired a man from the tribe of Bani Ad-Dail from the family of Bani Abd bin Adi as an expert guide, and he was in alliance with the family of Al-'As bin Wail As-Sahmi and he was on the religion of the infidels of Quraish. The Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr trusted him and gave him their two she-camels and took his promise to bring their two she camels to the cave of the mountain of Thaur in the morning after three nights later. And (when they set out), 'Amir bin Fuhaira and the guide went along with them and the guide led them along the sea-shore.
Bukhari:3906 The nephew of Suraqa bin Ju'sham said that his father informed him that he heard Suraqa bin Ju'sham saying, "The messengers of the heathens of Quraish came to us declaring that they had assigned for the persons why would kill or arrest Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr, a reward equal to their bloodmoney. While I was sitting in one of the gatherings of my tribe. Bani Mudlij, a man from them came to us and stood up while we were sitting, and said, "O Suraqa! No doubt, I have just seen some people far away on the seashore, and I think they are Muhammad and his companions." Suraqa added, "I too realized that it must have been they. But I said 'No, it is not they, but you have seen so-and-so, and so-and-so whom we saw set out.' I stayed in the gathering for a while and then got up and left for my home. and ordered my slave-girl to get my horse which was behind a hillock, and keep it ready for me.Then I took my spear and left by the back door of my house dragging the lower end of the spear on the ground and keeping it low. Then I reached my horse, mounted it and made it gallop. When I approached them (i.e. Muhammad and Abu Bakr), my horse stumbled and I fell down from it, Then I stood up, got hold of my quiver and took out the divining arrows and drew lots as to whether I should harm them (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr) or not, and the lot which I disliked came out. But I remounted my horse and let it gallop, giving no importance to the divining arrows. When I heard the recitation of the Quran by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who did not look hither and thither while Abu Bakr was doing it often, suddenly the forelegs of my horse sank into the ground up to the knees, and I fell down from it. Then I rebuked it and it got up but could hardly take out its forelegs from the ground, and when it stood up straight again, its fore-legs caused dust to rise up in the sky like smoke. Then again I drew lots with the divining arrows, and the lot which I disliked, came out. So I called upon them to feel secure. They stopped, and I remounted my horse and went to them. When I saw how I had been hampered from harming them, it came to my mind that the cause of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (i.e. Islam) will become victorious. So I said to him, "Your people have assigned a reward equal to the bloodmoney for your head." Then I told them all the plans the people of Mecca had made concerning them. Then I offered them some journey food and goods but they refused to take anything and did not ask for anything, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not tell others about us." Then I requested him to write for me a statement of security and peace. He ordered 'Amr bin Fuhaira who wrote it for me on a parchment, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) proceeded on his way.Narrated 'Urwa bin Az-Zubair:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) met Az-Zubair in a caravan of Muslim merchants who were returning from Sham. Az-Zubair provided Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr with white clothes to wear. When the Muslims of Medina heard the news of the departure of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from Mecca (towards Medina), they started going to the Harra every morning . They would wait for him till the heat of the noon forced them to return. One day, after waiting for a long while, they returned home, and when they went into their houses, a Jew climbed up the roof of one of the forts of his people to look for some thing, and he saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions dressed in white clothes, emerging out of the desert mirage.The Jew could not help shouting at the top of his voice, "O you 'Arabs! Here is your great man whom you have been waiting for!" So all the Muslims rushed to their arms and received Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the summit of Harra. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned with them to the right and alighted at the quarters of Bani 'Amr bin 'Auf, and this was on Monday in the month of Rabi-ul-Awal. Abu Bakr stood up, receiving the people while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sat down and kept silent. Some of the Ansar who came and had not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) before, began greeting Abu Bakr, but when the sunshine fell on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came forward and shaded him with his sheet only then the people came to know Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed with Bani 'Amr bin 'Auf for ten nights and established the mosque (mosque of Quba) which was founded on piety. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed in it and then mounted his she-camel and proceeded on, accompanied by the people till his she-camel knelt down at (the place of) the Mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Medina. Some Muslims used to pray there in those days, and that place was a yard for drying dates belonging to Suhail and Sahl, the orphan boys who were under the guardianship of 'Asad bin Zurara. When his she-camel knelt down, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This place, Allah willing, will be our abiding place." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then called the two boys and told them to suggest a price for that yard so that he might take it as a mosque. The two boys said, "No, but we will give it as a gift, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then built a mosque there. The Prophet (ﷺ) himself started carrying unburnt bricks for its building and while doing so, he was saying "This load is better than the load of Khaibar, for it is more pious in the Sight of Allah and purer and better rewardable." He was also saying, "O Allah! The actual reward is the reward in the Hereafter, so bestow Your Mercy on the Ansar and the Emigrants." Thus the Prophet (ﷺ) recited (by way of proverb) the poem of some Muslim poet whose name is unknown to me.(Ibn Shibab said, "In the Hadiths it does not occur that Allah's Apostlerecited a complete poetic verse other than this one.")
Bukhari:3907 Narrated Asma:I prepared the journey food for the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr when they wanted (to migrate to) Medina. I 
said to my father (Abu Bakr), "I do not have anything to tie the container of the journey food with 
except my waist belt." He said, "Divide it lengthwise into two." I did so, and for this reason I was 
named 'Dhat-un-Nitaqain' (i.e. the owner of two belts). (Ibn `Abbas said, "Asma', Dhat-un-Nitaq.")
Bukhari:3908 Narrated Al-Bara:When the Prophet (ﷺ) migrated to Medina, Suraqa bin Malik bin Ju'sham pursued him. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
invoked evil on him, therefore the forelegs of his horse sank into the ground. Suraqa said (to the 
Prophet ), "Invoke Allah to rescue me, and I will not harm you. "The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for him. 
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt thirsty and he passed by a shepherd. Abu Bakr said, "I took a bowl and 
milked a little milk in it and brought it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he drank till I was pleased."
Bukhari:3909 Narrated Asma:That she conceived `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair. She added, "I migrated to Medina while I was at full 
term of pregnancy and alighted at Quba where I gave birth to him. Then I brought him to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and put him in his lap. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a date, chewed it, and put some of its juice in the child's 
mouth. So, the first thing that entered the child's stomach was the saliva of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Then the 
Prophet rubbed the child's palate with a date and invoked for Allah's Blessings on him, and he was the 
first child born amongst the Emigrants in the Islamic Land (i.e. Medina).
Bukhari:3910 Narrated Aisha:The first child who was born in the Islamic Land (i.e. Medina) amongst the Emigrants, was `Abdullah 
bin Az-Zubair. They brought him to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) took a date, and after chewing it, put its 
juice in his mouth. So the first thing that went into the child's stomach, was the saliva of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3911 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina with Abu Bakr, riding behind him on the same camel. Abu Bakr 
was an elderly man known to the people, while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was a youth that was unknown. Thus, 
if a man met Abu Bakr, he would say, "O Abu Bakr! Who is this man in front of you?" Abu Bakr 
would say, "This man shows me the Way," One would think that Abu Bakr meant the road, while in 
fact, Abu Bakr meant the way of virtue and good. Then Abu Bakr looked behind and saw a horse-rider 
pursuing them. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is a horse-rider pursuing us." The Prophet (ﷺ) looked 
behind and said, "O Allah! Cause him to fall down." So the horse threw him down and got up 
neighing. After that the rider, Suraqa said, "O Allah's Prophet! Order me whatever you want." The 
Prophet said, "Stay where you are and do not allow anybody to reach us." So, in the first part of the 
day Suraqa was an enemy of Allah's Prophet and in the last part of it, he was a protector. Then Allah's 
Apostle alighted by the side of the Al-Harra and sent a message to the Ansar, and they came to Allah's 
Prophet and Abu Bakr, and having greeted them, they said, "Ride (your she-camels) safe and obeyed." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr rode and the Ansar, carrying their arms, surrounded them. The news 
that Allah's Prophet had come circulated in Medina. The people came out and were eagerly looking 
and saying "Allah's Prophet has come! Allah's Prophet has come! So the Prophet (ﷺ) went on till he 
alighted near the house of Abu Ayub. While the Prophet (ﷺ) was speaking with the family members of 
Abu Ayub, `Abdullah bin Salam heard the news of his arrival while he himself was picking the dates 
for his family from his family garden. He hurried to the Prophet (ﷺ) carrying the dates which he had 
collected for his family from the garden. He listened to Allah's Prophet and then went home. 
Then Allah's Prophet said, "Which is the nearest of the houses of our kith and kin?" Abu Ayub 
replied, "Mine, O Allah's Prophet! This is my house and this is my gate." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go and 
prepare a place for our midday rest." Abu Ayub said, "Get up (both of you) with Allah's Blessings." 
So when Allah's Prophet went into the house, `Abdullah bin Salam came and said "I testify that you 
(i.e. Muhammad) are Apostle of Allah and that you have come with the Truth. The Jews know well 
that I am their chief and the son of their chief and the most learned amongst them and the son of the 
most learned amongst them. So send for them (i.e. Jews) and ask them about me before they know 
that I have embraced Islam, for if they know that they will say about me things which are not correct." 
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for them, and they came and entered. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "O (the 
group of) Jews! Woe to you: be afraid of Allah. By Allah except Whom none has the right to be 
worshipped, you people know for certain, that I am Apostle of Allah and that I have come to you with 
the Truth, so embrace Islam." The Jews replied, "We do not know this." So they said this to the 
Prophet and he repeated it thrice. Then he said, "What sort of a man is `Abdullah bin Salam amongst 
you?" They said, "He is our chief and the son of our chief and the most learned man, and the son of 
the most learned amongst us." He said, "What would you think if he should embrace Islam?" They 
said, "Allah forbid! He can not embrace Islam." He said, " What would you think if he should 
embrace Islam?" They said, "Allah forbid! He can not embrace Islam." He said, "What would you 
think if he should embrace Islam?" They said, "Allah forbid! He can not embrace Islam." He said, "O 
Ibn Salam! Come out to them." He came out and said, "O (the group of) Jews! Be afraid of Allah 
except Whom none has the right to be worshipped. You know for certain that he is Apostle of Allah 
and that he has brought a True Religion!' They said, "You tell a lie." On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) turned 
them out.
Bukhari:3912 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab fixed a grant of 4000 (Dirhams) for every Early Emigrant (i.e. Muhajir) and 
fixed a grant of 3500 (Dirhams) only for Ibn `Umar. Somebody said to `Umar, "Ibn `Umar is also one 
of the Early Emigrants; why do you give him less than four-thousand?" `Umar replied, "His parents 
took him with them when they migrated, so he was not like the one who had migrated by himself.
Bukhari:3913 Narrated Khabbab:We migrated with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (See Hadith No. 253 below).
Bukhari:3914 Narrated Khabbab:We migrated with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) seeking Allah's Countenance, so our rewards became due and sure 
with Allah. Some of us passed away without eating anything of their rewards in this world. One of 
these was Mus`ab bin `Umar who was martyred on the day of the battle of Uhud. We did not find 
anything to shroud his body with except a striped cloak. When we covered his head with it, his feet 
remained uncovered, and when we covered his feet with it, his head remained uncovered. So Allah's 
Apostle ordered us to cover his head with it and put some Idhkhir (i.e. a kind of grass) over his feet. 
And there are some amongst us whose fruits have ripened and they are collecting them (i.e. they have 
received their rewards in this world).
Bukhari:3915 Narrated Abu Burda Bin Abi Musa Al-Ash`ari:`Abdullah bin `Umar said to me, "Do you know what my father said to your father once?" I said, 
"No." He said, "My father said to your father, 'O Abu Musa, will it please you that we will be 
rewarded for our conversion to Islam with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and our migration with him, and our Jihad 
with him and all our good deeds which we did, with him, and that all the deeds we did after his death 
will be disregarded whether good or bad?' Your father (i.e. Abu Musa) said, 'No, by Allah, we took 
part in Jihad after Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , prayed and did plenty of good deeds, and many people have 
embraced Islam at our hands, and no doubt, we expect rewards from Allah for these good deeds.' On 
that my father (i.e. `Umar) said, 'As for myself, By Him in Whose Hand `Umar's soul is, I wish that 
the deeds done by us at the time of the Prophet (ﷺ) remain rewardable while whatsoever we did after the 
death of the Prophet (ﷺ) be enough to save us from Punishment in that the good deeds compensate for the 
bad ones.' " On that I said (to Ibn `Umar), "By Allah, your father was better than my father!"
Bukhari:3916 Narrated Abu `Uthman:I heard that Ibn `Umar used to become angry if someone mentioned that he had migrated before his 
father (`Umar), and he used to say, " `Umar and I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and found him having his 
midday rest, so we returned home. Then `Umar sent me again (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ) and said, 'Go and see 
whether he is awake.' I went to him and entered his place and gave him the pledge of allegiance. Then 
I went back to `Umar and informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) was awake. So we both went, running 
slowly, and when `Umar entered his place, he gave him the pledge of allegiance and thereafter I too 
gave him the pledge of allegiance."
Bukhari:3917 Narrated Al-Bara:Abu Bakr bought a (camel's) saddle from `Azib, and I carried it for him. `Azib (i.e. my father) asked 
Abu Bakr regarding the journey of the migration of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Abu Bakr said, "Close observers 
were appointed by our enemies to watch us. So we went out at night and travelled throughout the 
night and the following day till it was noon, then we perceived a rock and went towards it, and there 
was some shade under it. I spread a cloak I had with me for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then the Prophet (ﷺ) layed 
on it. I went out to guard him and all of a sudden I saw a shepherd coming with his sheep looking for 
the same, the shade of the rock as we did, I asked him, 'O boy, to whom do you belong?' He replied, 'I 
belong to so-and-so.' I asked him, 'Is there some milk in your sheep?' He replied in the affirmative. I 
asked him, 'Will you milk?' He replied in the affirmative. Then he got hold of one of his sheep. I said 
to him, 'Remove the dust from its udder.' Then he milked a little milk. I had a water-skin with me 
which was tied with a piece of cloth. I had prepared the water-skin for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . So I poured 
some water over the milk (container) till its bottom became cold. Then I brought the milk to the 
Prophet and said, 'Drink, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank till I became pleased. Then we 
departed and the pursuers were following us."
Bukhari:3918 Al-Bara added:I then went with Abu Bakr into his 
home (carrying that saddle) and there I saw his daughter `Aisha Lying in a bed because of heavy fever 
and I saw her father Abu Bakr kissing her cheek and saying, "How are you, little daughter?"
Bukhari:3919 Narrated Anas:(the servant of the Prophet) When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Medina), there was not a single companion 
of the Prophet (ﷺ) who had grey and black hair except Abu Bakr, and he dyed his hair with Henna' and 
Katam (i.e. plants used for dying hair).
Bukhari:3920 Through another group of narrators, Anas bin Malik said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, the eldest amongst his companions was Abu Bakr. He dyed his 
hair with Hinna and Katam till it became of dark red color.
Bukhari:3921 Narrate Aisha:Abu Bakr married a woman from the tribe of Bani Kalb, called Um Bakr. When Abu Bakr migrated to 
Medina, he divorced her and she was married by her cousin, the poet who said the following poem 
lamenting the infidels of Quraish: 
"What is there kept in the well, The well of Badr, (The owners of) the trays of Roasted camel humps? 
What is there kept in the well, The well of Badr, (The owners of) lady singers And friends of the 
honorable companions; who used to drink (wine) together, Um Bakr greets us With the greeting of 
peace, But can I find peace After my people have gone? The Apostle tells us that We shall live again, 
But what sort of life will owls and skulls live?:
Bukhari:3922 Narrated Abu Bakr:I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Cave. When I raised my head, I saw the feet of the people. I said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If some of them should look down, they will see us." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Bakr, 
be quiet! (For we are) two and Allah is the Third of us."
Bukhari:3923 Narrated Abu Sa`id:Once a bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked him about the migration. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Mercy of 
Allah be on you! The migration is a quite difficult matter. Have you got some camels?" He replied in 
the affirmative. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you give their Zakat?" He replied in the affirmative. The 
Prophet said, "Do you let others benefit by their milk gratis?" He replied in the affirmative. Then the 
Prophet asked, "Do you milk them on their watering days and give their milk to the poor and needy?" 
He replied in the affirmative. The Prophet, said, "Go on doing like this from beyond the seas, and 
there is no doubt that Allah will not overlook any of your good deeds."
Bukhari:3924 Narrated Al-Bara:The first people who came to us (in Medina) were Mus`ab bin `Umar and Ibn Um Maktum. Then 
came to us `Ammar bin Yasir and Bilal.
Bukhari:3925 Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:The first people who came to us (in Medina) were Mus`ab bin `Umar and Ibn Um Maktum who were 
teaching Qur'an to the people. Then their came Bilal. Sa`d and `Ammar bin Yasir. After that `Umar 
bin Al-Khattab came along with twenty other companions of the Prophet. Later on the Prophet (ﷺ) himself 
(to Medina) and I had never seen the people of Medina so joyful as they were on the arrival of Allah's 
Apostle, for even the slave girls were saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has arrived!" And before his arrival I 
had read the Sura starting with:-- "Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High" (87.1) together 
with other Suras of Al-Mufassal.
Bukhari:3926 Narrated `Aisha:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Medina, Abu Bakr and Bilal got fever, and I went to both of them and 
said, "O my father, how do you feel? O Bilal, how do you feel?" Whenever Abu Bakr's fever got 
worse, he would say, "Every man will meet his death once in one morning while he will be among his 
family, for death is really nearer to him than his leather shoe laces (to his feet)." And whenever fever 
deserted Bilal, he would say aloud, "Would that I know whether I shall spend a night in the valley (of 
Mecca) with Idhkhir and Jalil (i.e. kinds of grass) around me, and whether I shall drink one day the 
water of Mijannah, and whether I shall see once again the hills of Shamah and Tafil?" Then I went to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him of that. He said, "O Allah, make us love Medina as much as or more than 
we used to love Mecca, O Allah, make it healthy and bless its Sa' and Mud (i.e. measures), and take 
away its fever to Al-Juhfa."
Bukhari:3927 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin Ad bin Khiyair:I went to `Uthman. After reciting Tashah-hud, he said,. "Then after no doubt, Allah sent Muhammad 
with the Truth, and I was amongst those who responded to the Call of Allah and His Prophet and 
believed in the message of Muhammad. Then took part in the two migrations. I became the son-in-law 
of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and gave the pledge of allegiance to him By Allah, I never disobeyed him, nor did I 
deceive him till Allah took him unto Him."
Bukhari:3928 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:During the last Hajj led by `Umar, `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf returned to his family at Mina and met 
me there. `AbdurRahman said (to `Umar), "O chief of the believers! The season of Hajj is the season 
when there comes the scum of the people (besides the good amongst them), so I recommend that you 
should wait till you go back to Medina, for it is the place of Migration and Sunna (i.e. the Prophet's 
tradition), and there you will be able to refer the matter to the religious scholars and the nobles and the 
people of wise opinions." `Umar said, "I will speak of it in Medina on my very first sermon I will 
deliver there."
Bukhari:3929 Narrated 'Um Al-`Ala:An Ansari woman who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) that the Ansar drew lots 
concerning the dwelling of the Emigrants. `Uthman bin Maz'un was decided to dwell with them (i.e. 
Um Al-`Ala's family), `Uthman fell ill and I nursed him till he died, and we covered him with his 
clothes. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and I (addressing the dead body) said, "O Abu As-Sa'ib, may 
Allah's Mercy be on you! I bear witness that Allah has honored you." On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "How 
do you know that Allah has honored him?" I replied, "I do not know. May my father and my mother 
be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! But who else is worthy of it (if not `Uthman)?" He said, "As 
to him, by Allah, death has overtaken him, and I hope the best for him. By Allah, though I am the 
Apostle of Allah, yet I do not know what Allah will do to me," By Allah, I will never assert the piety 
of anyone after him. That made me sad, and when I slept I saw in a dream a flowing stream for 
`Uthman bin Maz'un. I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him of it. He remarked, "That symbolizes his 
(good) deeds."
Bukhari:3930 Narrated `Aisha:The day of Bu'ath was a day (i.e. battle) which Allah caused to take place just before the mission of 
His Apostle so that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Medina, they (the tribes) had divided (into hostile 
groups) and their nobles had been killed; and all that facilitated their conversion to Islam.
Bukhari:3931 Narrated Aisha:That once Abu Bakr came to her on the day of `Id-ul-Fitr or `Id ul Adha while the Prophet (ﷺ) was with 
her and there were two girl singers with her, singing songs of the Ansar about the day of Buath. Abu 
Bakr said twice. "Musical instrument of Satan!" But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave them Abu Bakr, for 
every nation has an `Id (i.e. festival) and this day is our `Id."
Bukhari:3932 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, he alighted at the upper part of Medina among the people 
called Bani `Amr bin `Auf and he stayed with them for fourteen nights. Then he sent for the chiefs of 
Bani An-Najjar, and they came, carrying their swords. As if I am just now looking at Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
on his she-camel with Abu Bakr riding behind him (on the same camel) and the chiefs of Bani An- 
Najjar around him till he dismounted in the courtyard of Abu Aiyub's home. The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer 
the prayer wherever the prayer was due, and he would pray even in sheepfolds. Then he ordered that 
the mosque be built. He sent for the chiefs of Banu An-Najjar, and when they came, he said, "O Banu 
An-Najjar! Suggest to me the price of this garden of yours." They replied "No! By Allah, we do not 
demand its price except from Allah." In that garden there were the (following) things that I will tell 
you: Graves of pagans, unleveled land with holes and pits etc., and date-palm trees. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
ordered that the graves of the pagans be dug up and, the unleveled land be leveled and the date-palm 
trees be cut down. The trunks of the trees were arranged so as to form the wall facing the Qibla. The 
Stone pillars were built at the sides of its gate. The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) were carrying the 
stones and reciting some lyrics, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . . was with them and they were saying, "O Allah! 
There is no good Excel the good of the Hereafter, so bestow victory on the Ansar and the Emigrants. "
Bukhari:3933 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Humaid Az-Zuhri:I heard `Umar bin `Abdul-Aziz asking As-Sa'ib, the nephew of An-Nimr. "What have you heard about 
residing in Mecca?" The other said, "I heard Al-Ala bin Al-Hadrami saying, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: An 
Emigrant is allowed to stay in Mecca for three days after departing from Mina (i.e. after performing 
all the ceremonies of Hajj)"
Bukhari:3934 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet's companions did not take as a starting date for the Muslim calendar, the day, the Prophet (ﷺ) 
had been sent as an Apostle or the day of his death, but the day of his arrival at Medina.
Bukhari:3935 Narrated `Aisha:Originally, two rak`at were prescribed in every prayer. When the Prophet (ﷺ) migrated (to Medina) four 
rak`at were enjoined, while the journey prayer remained unchanged(i.e. two rak`at).
Bukhari:3936 Narrated Sa`d bin Malik:In the year of Hajjat-ul-Wada` the Prophet (ﷺ) visited me when I fell ill and was about to die because of 
that illness. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am very ill as you see, and I am a rich man and have no heir 
except my only daughter. Shall I give 2/3 of my property in charity?" He said, "No." I said, "Shall I 
then give one half of it in charity?" He said, "O Sa`d! Give 1/3 (in charity) and even 1/3 is too much. 
No doubt, it is better to leave your children rich than to leave them poor, reduced to begging from 
others. And Allah will reward you for whatever you spend with the intention of gaining Allah's 
Pleasure even if it were a mouthful of food you put into your wives mouth." I said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Am I to be left behind (in Mecca) after my companions have gone?" He said, "If you should 
be left behind, you will be upgraded and elevated for every deed you will do with a desire to achieve 
Allah's Pleasure. I hope that you will live long so that some people will benefit by you while others 
will be harmed. O Allah! Please fulfill the migration of my companions and do not make them turn 
back on their heels. But (we feel sorry for) the unlucky Sa`d bin Khaulah." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lamented 
his death in Mecca.
Bukhari:3937 Narrated Anas:When `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf came to Medina and the Prophet (ﷺ) established the bond of brotherhood 
between him and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi-al-Ansari, Saud suggested that `Abdur-Rahman should accept half 
of his property and family. `Abdur Rahman said, "May Allah bless you in your family and property; 
guide me to the market." So `Abdur-Rahman (while doing business in the market) made some profit 
of some condensed dry yoghurt and butter. After a few days the Prophet (ﷺ) saw him wearing clothes 
stained with yellow perfume. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "What is this, O `Abdur-Rahman?" He said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have married an Ansar' woman." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "What have you given her as 
Mahr?" He (i.e. `Abdur-Rahman) said, "A piece of gold, about the weight of a date stone." Then the 
Prophet said, Give a banquet, even though of a sheep."
Bukhari:3938 Narrated Anas:When the news of the arrival of the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina reached `Abdullah bin Salam, he went to him 
to ask him about certain things, He said, "I am going to ask you about three things which only a 
Prophet can answer: What is the first sign of The Hour? What is the first food which the people of 
Paradise will eat? Why does a child attract the similarity to his father or to his mother?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
replied, "Gabriel has just now informed me of that." Ibn Salam said, "He (i.e. Gabriel) is the enemy of 
the Jews amongst the angels. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As for the first sign of The Hour, it will be a fire that 
will collect the people from the East to the West. As for the first meal which the people of Paradise 
will eat, it will be the caudate (extra) lobe of the fish-liver. As for the child, if the man's discharge 
proceeds the woman's discharge, the child attracts the similarity to the man, and if the woman's 
discharge proceeds the man's, then the child attracts the similarity to the woman." 
On this, `Abdullah bin Salam said, "I testify that None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, 
and that you are the Messenger of Allah." and added, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Jews invent such lies as make 
one astonished, so please ask them about me before they know about my conversion to I slam . " The 
Jews came, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What kind of man is `Abdullah bin Salam among you?" They 
replied, "The best of us and the son of the best of us and the most superior among us, and the son of 
the most superior among us. "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What would you think if `Abdullah bin Salam should 
embrace Islam?" They said, "May Allah protect him from that." The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated his question and 
they gave the same answer. Then `Abdullah came out to them and said, "I testify that None has the 
right to be worshipped except Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah!" On this, the Jews 
said, "He is the most wicked among us and the son of the most wicked among us." So they degraded 
him. On this, he (i.e. `Abdullah bin Salam) said, "It is this that I was afraid of, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Bukhari:3939 Narrated Abu Al-Minhal `AbdurRahman bin Mut`im:A partner of mine sold some Dirhams on credit in the market. I said, "Glorified be Allah! Is this 
legal?" He replied, "Glorified be Allah! By Allah, when I sold them in the market, nobody objected to 
it." Then I asked Al-Bara' bin `Azib (about it) he said, "We used to make such a transaction when the 
Prophet came to Medina. So he said, 'There is no harm in it if it is done from hand to hand, but it is 
not allowed on credit.' Go to Zaid bin Al- Arqam and ask him about it for he was the greatest trader of 
all of us." So I asked Zaid bin Al-Arqam., and he said the same (as Al-Bara) did."
Bukhari:3940 Narrated Abu Al-Minhal `AbdurRahman bin Mut`im:A partner of mine sold some Dirhams on credit in the market. I said, "Glorified be Allah! Is this 
legal?" He replied, "Glorified be Allah! By Allah, when I sold them in the market, nobody objected to 
it." Then I asked Al-Bara' bin `Azib (about it) he said, "We used to make such a transaction when the 
Prophet came to Medina. So he said, 'There is no harm in it if it is done from hand to hand, but it is 
not allowed on credit.' Go to Zaid bin Al- Arqam and ask him about it for he was the greatest trader of 
all of us." So I asked Zaid bin Al-Arqam., and he said the same (as Al-Bara) did."
Bukhari:3941 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had only ten Jews (amongst their chiefs) believe me, all the Jews would definitely 
have believed me."
Bukhari:3942 Narrated Abu Musa:When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, he noticed that some people among the Jews used to respect 
Ashura' (i.e. 10th of Muharram) and fast on it. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "We have more right to observe 
fast on this day." and ordered that fasting should be observed on it.
Bukhari:3943 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Medina he found that the Jews observed fast on the day of 'Ashura'. They 
were asked the reason for the fast. They replied, "This is the day when Allah caused Moses and the 
children of Israel to have victory over Pharaoh, so we fast on this day as a sign of glorifying it." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We are closer to Moses than you." Then he ordered that fasting on this day 
should be observed.
Bukhari:3944 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to keep his hair falling loose while the pagans used to part their hair, and the People 
of the Scriptures used to keep their hair falling loose, and the Prophet (ﷺ) liked to follow the People of the 
Scriptures in matters about which he had not been instructed differently, but later on the Prophet (ﷺ) 
started parting his hair.
Bukhari:3945 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:They, the people of the Scriptures, divided this Scripture into parts, believing in some portions of it 
and disbelieving the others. (See 15:91)
Bukhari:3946 Narrated Salman Al-Farisi:That he was sold (as a slave) by one master to another for more than ten times (i.e between 13 and 
19).
Bukhari:3947 Narrated Salman:I am from Ram-Hurmuz (i.e. a Persian town).
Bukhari:3948 Narrated Salman:The interval between Jesus and Muhammad was six hundred years.
Bukhari:3949 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:Once, while I was sitting beside Zaid bin Al-Arqam, he was asked, "How many Ghazwat did the 
Prophet undertake?" Zaid replied, "Nineteen." They said, "In how many Ghazwat did you join him?" 
He replied, "Seventeen." I asked, "Which of these was the first?" He replied, "Al-`Ashira or Al- 
`Ashiru."
Bukhari:3950 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:From Sa`d bin Mu`adh: Sa`d bin Mu`adh was an intimate friend of Umaiya bin Khalaf and whenever 
Umaiya passed through Medina, he used to stay with Sa`d, and whenever Sa`d went to Mecca, he used 
to stay with Umaiya. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, Sa`d went to perform `Umra and 
stayed at Umaiya's home in Mecca. He said to Umaiya, "Tell me of a time when (the Mosque) is 
empty so that I may be able to perform Tawaf around the Ka`ba." So Umaiya went with him about 
midday. Abu Jahl met them and said, "O Abu Safwan! Who is this man accompanying you?" He said, 
"He is Sa`d." Abu Jahl addressed Sa`d saying, "I see you wandering about safely in Mecca inspite of 
the fact that you have given shelter to the people who have changed their religion (i.e. became 
Muslims) and have claimed that you will help them and support them. By Allah, if you were not in the 
company of Abu Safwan, you would not be able to go your family safely." Sa`d, raising his voice, 
said to him, "By Allah, if you should stop me from doing this (i.e. performing Tawaf) I would 
certainly prevent you from something which is more valuable for you, that is, your passage through 
Medina." On this, Umaiya said to him, "O Sa`d do not raise your voice before Abu-l-Hakam, the chief 
of the people of the Valley (of Mecca)." Sa`d said, "O Umaiya, stop that! By Allah, I have heard 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) predicting that the Muslim will kill you." Umaiya asked, "In Mecca?" Sa`d said, "I do 
not know." Umaiya was greatly scared by that news. 
When Umaiya returned to his family, he said to his wife, "O Um Safwan! Don't you know what Sa`d 
told me? "She said, "What has he told you?" He replied, "He claims that Muhammad has informed 
them (i.e. companions that they will kill me. I asked him, 'In Mecca?' He replied, 'I do not know." 
Then Umaiya added, "By Allah, I will never go out of Mecca." But when the day of (the Ghazwa of) 
Badr came, Abu Jahl called the people to war, saying, "Go and protect your caravan." But Umaiya 
disliked to go out (of Mecca). Abu Jahl came to him and said, "O Abu Safwan! If the people see you 
staying behind though you are the chief of the people of the Valley, then they will remain behind with 
you." Abu Jahl kept on urging him to go until he (i.e. Umaiya) said, "As you have forced me to 
change my mind, by Allah, I will buy the best camel in Mecca. Then Umaiya said (to his wife). "O 
Um Safwan, prepare what I need (for the journey)." She said to him, "O Abu Safwan! Have you 
forgotten what your Yathribi brother told you?" He said, "No, but I do not want to go with them but 
for a short distance." So when Umaiya went out, he used to tie his camel wherever he camped. He 
kept on doing that till Allah caused him to be killed at Badr.
Bukhari:3951 Narrated Ka`b bin Malik:I never failed to join Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in any of his Ghazawat except in the Ghazwa of Tabuk. 
However, I did not take part in the Ghazwa of Badr, but none who failed to take part in it, was 
blamed, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had gone out to meet the caravans of (Quraish, but Allah caused them (i.e. 
Muslims) to meet their enemy unexpectedly (with no previous intention) .
Bukhari:3952 Narrated Ibn Masud:I witnessed Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad in a scene which would have been dearer to me than anything 
had I been the hero of that scene. He (i.e. Al-Miqdad) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while the Prophet (ﷺ) was 
urging the Muslims to fight with the pagans. Al-Miqdad said, "We will not say as the People of Moses 
said: Go you and your Lord and fight you two. (5.27). But we shall fight on your right and on your left 
and in front of you and behind you." I saw the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) getting bright with happiness, for 
that saying delighted him.
Bukhari:3953 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:On the day of the battle of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! I appeal to You (to fulfill) Your 
Covenant and Promise. O Allah! If Your Will is that none should worship You (then give victory to 
the pagans)." Then Abu Bakr took hold of him by the hand and said, "This is sufficient for you." The 
Prophet came out saying, "Their multitude will be put to flight and they will show their backs." 
(54.45)
Bukhari:3954 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The believers who failed to join the Ghazwa of Badr and those who took part in it are not equal (in 
reward).
Bukhari:3955 Narrated Al-Bara:I and Ibn `Umar were considered too young to take part in the battle of Badr.
Bukhari:3956 Narrated Al-Bara:I and Ibn `Umar were considered too young (to take part) in the battle of Badr, and the number of the 
Emigrant warriors were over sixty (men) and the Ansar were over 249.
Bukhari:3957 Narrated Al-Bara:The companions of (the Prophet) Muhammad who took part in Badr, told me that their number was 
that of Saul's (i.e. Talut's) companions who crossed the river (of Jordan) with him and they were over 
three-hundred-and-ten men. By Allah, none crossed the river with him but a believer. (See Qur'an 
2:249)
Bukhari:3958 Narrated Al-Bara:We, the Companions of Muhammad used to say that the number of the warriors of Badr was the same 
as the number of Saul's companions who crossed the river (of Jordan) with him, and none crossed the 
river with him but a believer, and the were over three-hundred-and-ten men.
Bukhari:3959 Narrated Al-Bara:We used to say that the warriors of Badr were over three-hundred-and-ten, as many as the 
Companions of Saul who crossed the river with him; and none crossed the river with him but a 
believer.
Bukhari:3960 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) faced the Ka`ba and invoked evil on some people of Quraish, on Shaiba bin Rabi`a, 
`Utba bin Rabi`a, Al-Walid bin `Utba and Abu Jahl bin Hisham. I bear witness, by Allah, that I saw 
them all dead, putrefied by the sun as that day was a very hot day.
Bukhari:3961 Narrated `Abdullah That he came across Abu Jahl while he was on the point of death on the day of:Badr. Abu Jahl said, "You should not be proud that you have killed me nor I am ashamed of being 
killed by my own folk."
Bukhari:3962 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who will go and see what has happened to Abu Jahl?" Ibn Mas`ud went and found 
that the two sons of 'Afra had struck him fatally (and he was in his last breaths). `Abdullah bin Mas`ud 
said, "Are you Abu Jahl?" And took him by the beard. Abu Jahl said, "Can there be a man superior to 
one you have killed or one whom his own folk have killed?"
Bukhari:3963 Narrated Anas:On the day of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who will go and see what has happened to Abu Jahl?" Ibn 
Mas`ud went and found that the two sons of 'Afra had struck him fatally. `Abdullah bin Mas`ud got 
hold of his beard and said, "'Are you Abu Jahl?" He replied, "Can there be a man more superior to one 
whom his own folk have killed (or you have killed)?"
Bukhari:3964 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf:(the grandfather of Salih bin Ibrahim) the story of Badr, namely, the narration regarding the sons of 
'Afra'.
Bukhari:3965 Narrated Abu Mijlaz:From Qais bin Ubad: `Ali bin Abi Talib said, "I shall be the first man to kneel down before (Allah), 
the Beneficent to receive His judgment on the day of Resurrection (in my favor)." Qais bin Ubad also 
said, "The following Verse was revealed in their connection:-- 
"These two opponents believers and disbelievers) Dispute with each other About their Lord." (22.19) 
Qais said that they were those who fought on the day of Badr, namely, Hamza, `Ali, 'Ubaida or Abu 
'Ubaida bin Al-Harith, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Utba and Al-Wahd bin `Utba.
Bukhari:3966 Narrated Abu Dhar:The following Holy Verse:-- 
"These two opponents (believers & disbelievers) dispute with each other about their Lord," 
(22.19) was revealed concerning six men from Quraish, namely, `Ali, Hamza, 'Ubaida bin Al-Harith; 
Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Utba bin Rabi`a and Al-Walid bin `Utba.
Bukhari:3967 Narrated `Ali:The following Holy Verse:-- "These two opponents (believers and disbelievers) dispute with each 
other about their Lord." (22.19) was revealed concerning us.
Bukhari:3968 Narrated Qais bin Ubad:I heard Abu Dhar swearing that these Holy Verses were revealed in connection with those six persons 
on the day of Badr.
Bukhari:3969 Narrated Qais:I heard Abu Dhar swearing that the following Holy verse:-- "These two opponents (believers and 
disbelievers) disputing with each other about their Lord," (22.19) was revealed concerning those men 
who fought on the day of Badr, namely, Hamza, `Ali, Ubaida bin Al-Harith, `Utba and Shaiba----the 
two sons of Rabi`a-- and Al-Walid bin `Utba.
Bukhari:3970 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:A man asked Al-Bara' and I was listening, "Did `Ali take part in (the battle of) Badr?" Al-Bara' said, 
"(Yes). he even met (his enemies) in a duel and was clad in two armors (one over the other).
Bukhari:3971 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf:"I had an agreement with Umaiya bin Khalaf (that he would look after my relatives and property in 
Mecca, and I would look after his relatives and property in Medina)." `Abdur-Rahman then mentioned 
the killing of Umaiya and his son on the day of Badr, and Bilal said, "Woe to me if Umaiya remains 
safe (i.e. alive) . "
Bukhari:3972 Narrated 'Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat-an-Najm and then prostrated himself, and all
     who were with him prostrated too. But an old man took a handful of 
     dust and touched his forehead with it saying, "This is sufficient for 
     me." Later on I saw him killed as an infidel.
Bukhari:3973 Narrated 'Urwa (the son of Az- Zubair):Az-Zubair had three scars 
     caused by the sword, one of which was over his shoulder and I used to 
     insert my fingers in it. He received two of those wounds on the day of
     Badr and one on the day of Al-Yarmuk. When 'Abdullah bin Zubair was 
     killed, 'Abdul-Malik bin Marwan said to me, "O 'Urwa, do you recognize
     the sword of Az-Zubair?" I said, "Yes." He said, "What marks does it 
     have?" I replied, "It has a dent in its sharp edge which was caused in
     it on the day of Badr." 'Abdul- Malik said, "You are right! (i.e. 
     their swords) have dents because of clashing with the regiments of the
     enemies Then 'Abdul-Malik returned that sword to me (i.e. Urwa). 
     (Hisham, 'Urwa's son said, "We estimated the price of the sword as 
     three-thousand (Dinars) and after that it was taken by one of us (i.e.
     the inheritors) and I wish I could have had it.")
Bukhari:3974 Narrated Hisham:That his father said, "The sword of Az-Zubair was decorated with silver." Hisham added, "The sword 
of `Urwa was (also) decorated with silver. "
Bukhari:3975 Narrated `Urwa:On the day of (the battle) of Al-Yarmuk, the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Az-Zubair, "Will 
you attack the enemy so that we shall attack them with you?" Az-Zubair replied, "If I attack them, you 
people would not support me." They said, "No, we will support you." So Az-Zubair attacked them 
(i.e. Byzantine) and pierced through their lines, and went beyond them and none of his companions 
was with him. Then he returned and the enemy got hold of the bridle of his (horse) and struck him two 
blows (with the sword) on his shoulder. Between these two wounds there was a scar caused by a blow, 
he had received on the day of Badr (battle). When I was a child I used to play with those scars by 
putting my fingers in them. On that day (my brother) "Abdullah bin Az-Zubair was also with him and 
he was ten years old. Az-Zubair had carried him on a horse and let him to the care of some men.
Bukhari:3976 Narrated Abu Talha:On the day of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the corpses of twenty four leaders of Quraish should be 
thrown into one of the dirty dry wells of Badr. (It was a habit of the Prophet (ﷺ) that whenever he 
conquered some people, he used to stay at the battle-field for three nights. So, on the third day of the 
battle of Badr, he ordered that his she-camel be saddled, then he set out, and his companions followed 
him saying among themselves." "Definitely he (i.e. the Prophet) is proceeding for some great 
purpose." When he halted at the edge of the well, he addressed the corpses of the Quraish infidels by 
their names and their fathers' names, "O so-and-so, son of so-and-so and O so-and-so, son of so-andso! 
Would it have pleased you if you had obeyed Allah and His Apostle? We have found true what 
our Lord promised us. Have you too found true what your Lord promised you? "`Umar said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You are speaking to bodies that have no souls!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in 
Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, you do not hear, what I say better than they do." (Qatada said, 
"Allah brought them to life (again) to let them hear him, to reprimand them and slight them and take 
revenge over them and caused them to feel remorseful and regretful.")
Bukhari:3977 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:regarding the Statement of Allah:--"Those who have changed Allah's Blessings for disbelief..." 
(14.28) The people meant here by Allah, are the infidels of Quraish. (`Amr, a sub-narrator said, 
"Those are (the infidels of) Quraish and Muhammad is Allah's Blessing. Regarding Allah's 
Statement:"..and have led their people Into the house of destruction? (14.29) Ibn `Abbas said, "It 
means the Fire they will suffer from (after their death) on the day of Badr."
Bukhari:3978 Narrated Hisham's father:It was mentioned before `Aisha that Ibn `Umar attributed the following statement to the Prophet (ﷺ) "The 
dead person is punished in the grave because of the crying and lamentation Of his family." On that, 
`Aisha said, "But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The dead person is punished for his crimes and sins while his 
family cry over him then." She added, "And this is similar to the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he 
stood by the (edge of the) well which contained the corpses of the pagans killed at Badr, 'They hear 
what I say.' She added, "But he said now they know very well what I used to tell them was the truth." 
`Aisha then recited: 'You cannot make the dead hear.' (30.52) and 'You cannot make those who are in 
their Graves, hear you.' (35.22) that is, when they had taken their places in the (Hell) Fire.
Bukhari:3979 Narrated Hisham's father:It was mentioned before `Aisha that Ibn `Umar attributed the following statement to the Prophet (ﷺ) "The 
dead person is punished in the grave because of the crying and lamentation Of his family." On that, 
`Aisha said, "But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The dead person is punished for his crimes and sins while his 
family cry over him then." She added, "And this is similar to the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he 
stood by the (edge of the) well which contained the corpses of the pagans killed at Badr, 'They hear 
what I say.' She added, "But he said now they know very well what I used to tell them was the truth." 
`Aisha then recited: 'You cannot make the dead hear.' (30.52) and 'You cannot make those who are in 
their Graves, hear you.' (35.22) that is, when they had taken their places in the (Hell) Fire.
Bukhari:3980 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood at the well of Badr (which contained the corpses of the pagans) and said, "Have 
you found true what your lord promised you?" Then he further said, "They now hear what I say." This 
was mentioned before `Aisha and she said, "But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Now they know very well that what 
I used to tell them was the truth.' Then she recited (the Holy Verse):-- "You cannot make the dead 
hear... ...till the end of Verse)." (30.52)
Bukhari:3981 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood at the well of Badr (which contained the corpses of the pagans) and said, "Have 
you found true what your lord promised you?" Then he further said, "They now hear what I say." This 
was mentioned before `Aisha and she said, "But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Now they know very well that what 
I used to tell them was the truth.' Then she recited (the Holy Verse):-- "You cannot make the dead 
hear... ...till the end of Verse)." (30.52)
Bukhari:3982 Narrated Anas:Haritha was martyred on the day (of the battle) of Badr, and he was a young boy then. His mother 
came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You know how dear Haritha is to me. If he is in 
Paradise, I shall remain patient, and hope for reward from Allah, but if it is not so, then you shall see 
what I do?" He said, "May Allah be merciful to you! Have you lost your senses? Do you think there is 
only one Paradise? There are many Paradises and your son is in the (most superior) Paradise of Al- 
Firdaus."
Bukhari:3983 Narrated `Ali:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me, Abu Marthad and Az-Zubair, and all of us were riding horses, and said, "Go 
till you reach Raudat-Khakh where there is a pagan woman carrying a letter from Hatib bin Abi Balta' 
a to the pagans of Mecca." So we found her riding her camel at the place which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had 
mentioned. We said (to her),"(Give us) the letter." She said, "I have no letter." Then we made her 
camel kneel down and we searched her, but we found no letter. Then we said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not 
told us a lie, certainly. Take out the letter, otherwise we will strip you naked." When she saw that we 
were determined, she put her hand below her waist belt, for she had tied her cloak round her waist, 
and she took out the letter, and we brought her to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Then `Umar said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! (This Hatib) has betrayed Allah, His Apostle and the believers! Let me cut off his neck!" The 
Prophet asked Hatib, "What made you do this?" Hatib said, "By Allah, I did not intend to give up my 
belief in Allah and His Apostle but I wanted to have some influence among the (Mecca) people so that 
through it, Allah might protect my family and property. There is none of your companions but has 
some of his relatives there through whom Allah protects his family and property." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"He has spoken the truth; do no say to him but good." `Umar said, "He as betrayed Allah, His Apostle 
and the faithful believers. Let me cut off his neck!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is he not one of the Badr 
warriors? May be Allah looked at the Badr warriors and said, 'Do whatever you like, as I have granted 
Paradise to you, or said, 'I have forgiven you."' On this, tears came out of `Umar's eyes, and he said, 
"Allah and His Apostle know better."
Bukhari:3984 Narrated Usaid:On the day of Badr, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "When the enemy comes near to you, shoot at them but 
use your arrows sparingly (so that your arrows should not be wasted).
Bukhari:3985 Narrated Abu Usaid:On the day of (the battle of) Badr, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "When your enemy comes near to you 
(i.e. overcome you by sheer number), shoot at them but use your arrows sparingly."
Bukhari:3986 Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:On the day of Uhud the Prophet (ﷺ) appointed `Abdullah bin Jubair as chief of the archers, and seventy 
among us were injured and martyred. On the day (of the battle) of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his 
companions had inflicted 140 casualties on the pagans, 70 were taken prisoners, and 70 were killed. 
Abu Sufyan said, "This is a day of (revenge) for the day of Badr and the issue of war is undecided ."
Bukhari:3987 Narrated Abu Musa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The good is what Allah gave us later on (after Uhud), and the reward of 
truthfulness is what Allah gave us after the day (of the battle) of Badr."
Bukhari:3988 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf:While I was fighting in the front file on the day (of the battle) of Badr, suddenly I looked behind and 
saw on my right and left two young boys and did not feel safe by standing between them. Then one of 
them asked me secretly so that his companion may not hear, "O Uncle! Show me Abu Jahl." I said, "O 
nephew! What will you do to him?" He said, "I have promised Allah that if I see him (i.e. Abu Jahl), I 
will either kill him or be killed before I kill him." Then the other said the same to me secretly so that 
his companion should not hear. I would not have been pleased to be in between two other men instead 
of them. Then I pointed him (i.e. Abu Jahl) out to them. Both of them attacked him like two hawks till 
they knocked him down. Those two boys were the sons of 'Afra' (i.e. an Ansari woman).
Bukhari:3989 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent out ten spies under the command of `Asim bin Thabit Al-Ansari, the grand-father 
of `Asim bin `Umar Al-Khattab. When they reached (a place called) Al-Hadah between 'Usfan and 
Mecca, their presence was made known to a sub-tribe of Hudhail called Banu Lihyan. So they sent 
about one hundred archers after them. The archers traced the footsteps (of the Muslims) till they found 
the traces of dates which they had eaten at one of their camping places. The archers said, "These dates 
are of Yathrib (i.e. Medina)," and went on tracing the Muslims' footsteps. When `Asim and his 
companions became aware of them, they took refuge in a (high) place. But the enemy encircled them 
and said, "Come down and surrender. We give you a solemn promise and covenant that we will not 
kill anyone of you." `Asim bin Thabit said, "O people! As for myself, I will never get down to be 
under the protection of an infidel. O Allah! Inform your Prophet about us." So the archers threw their 
arrows at them and martyred `Asim. Three of them came down and surrendered to them, accepting 
their promise and covenant and they were Khubaib, Zaid bin Ad-Dathina and another man. When the 
archers got hold of them, they untied the strings of the arrow bows and tied their captives with them. 
The third man said, "This is the first proof of treachery! By Allah, I will not go with you for I follow 
the example of these." He meant the martyred companions. The archers dragged him and struggled 
with him (till they martyred him). Then Khubaib and Zaid bin Ad-Dathina were taken away by them 
and later on they sold them as slaves in Mecca after the event of the Badr battle. 
The sons of Al-Harit bin `Amr bin Naufal bought Khubaib for he was a person who had killed (their 
father) Al-Hari bin `Amr on the day (of the battle) of Badr. Khubaib remained imprisoned by them till 
they decided unanimously to kill him. One day Khubaib borrowed from a daughter of Al-Harith, a 
razor for shaving his pubic hair, and she lent it to him. By chance, while she was inattentive, a little 
son of hers went to him (i.e. Khubaib) and she saw that Khubaib had seated him on his thigh while the 
razor was in his hand. She was so much terrified that Khubaib noticed her fear and said, "Are you 
afraid that I will kill him? Never would I do such a thing." Later on (while narrating the story) she 
said, "By Allah, I had never seen a better captive than Khubaib. By Allah, one day I saw him eating 
from a bunch of grapes in his hand while he was fettered with iron chains and (at that time) there was 
no fruit in Mecca." She used to say," It was food Allah had provided Khubaib with." 
When they took him to Al-Hil out of Mecca sanctuary to martyr him, Khubaib requested them. 
"Allow me to offer a two-rak`at prayer." They allowed him and he prayed two rak`at and then said, 
"By Allah! Had I not been afraid that you would think I was worried, I would have prayed more." 
Then he (invoked evil upon them) saying, "O Allah! Count them and kill them one by one, and do not 
leave anyone of them"' Then he recited: "As I am martyred as a Muslim, I do not care in what way I 
receive my death for Allah's Sake, for this is for the Cause of Allah. If He wishes, He will bless the 
cut limbs of my body." Then Abu Sarva, 'Ubqa bin Al-Harith went up to him and killed him. It was 
Khubaib who set the tradition of praying for any Muslim to be martyred in captivity (before he is 
executed). The Prophet (ﷺ) told his companions of what had happened (to those ten spies) on the same 
day they were martyred. Some Quraish people, being informed of `Asim bin Thabit's death, sent some 
messengers to bring a part of his body so that his death might be known for certain, for he had 
previously killed one of their leaders (in the battle of Badr). But Allah sent a swarm of wasps to 
protect the dead body of `Asim, and they shielded him from the messengers who could not cut 
anything from his body.
Bukhari:3990 Narrated Nafi:Ibn 'Umar was once told that Said bin Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail, one of
     the Badr warriors, had fallen ill on a Friday. Ibn 'Umar rode to him 
     late in the forenoon. The time of the Friday prayer approached and Ibn
     'Umar did not take part in the Friday prayer.
Bukhari:3991 Narrated Subaia bint Al-Harith:That she was married to Sad bin Khaula
     who was from the tribe of Bani 'Amr bin Luai, and was one of those who
     fought the Badr battle. He died while she wa pregnant during 
     Hajjat-ul-Wada.' Soon after his death, she gave birth to a child. When
     she completed the term of deliver (i.e. became clean), she prepared 
     herself for suitors. Abu As-Sanabil bin Bu'kak, a man from the tribe 
     of Bani Abd-ud-Dal called on her and said to her, "What! I see you 
     dressed up for the people to ask you in marriage. Do you want to marry
     By Allah, you are not allowed to marry unless four months and ten days
     have elapsed (after your husband's death)." Subai'a in her narration 
     said, "When he (i.e. Abu As-Sanabil) said this to me. I put on my 
     dress in the evening and went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and asked him about 
     this problem. He gave the verdict that I was free to marry as I had 
     already given birth to my child and ordered me to marry if I wished."
Bukhari:3992 Narrated Rifaa:(who was one of the Badr warriors) Gabriel came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "How do you look upon the 
warriors of Badr among yourselves?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As the best of the Muslims." or said a similar 
statement. On that, Gabriel said, "And so are the Angels who participated in the Badr (battle).
Bukhari:3993 Narrated Mu`adh bin Rifa`a bin Rafi`:Rifa`a was one of the warriors of Badr while (his father) Rafi` was one of the people of Al-`Aqaba 
(i.e. those who gave the pledge of allegiance at Al-`Aqaba). Rafi` used to say to his son, "I would not 
have been happier if I had taken part in the Badr battle instead of taking part in the 'Aqaba pledge."
Bukhari:3994 Narrated Mu`adh:The one who asked (the Prophet) was Gabriel (refer to Hadith 5.327).
Bukhari:3995 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said on the day (of the battle) of Badr, "This is Gabriel holding the head of his horse and 
equipped with arms for the battle.
Bukhari:3996 Narrated Anas:Abu Zaid died and did not leave any offspring, and he was one of the Badr warriors.
Bukhari:3997 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Abu Sa`id bin Malik Al-Khudri returned from a journey and his family offered him some meat of 
sacrifices offered at `Id ul Adha. On that he said, "I will not eat it before asking (whether it is 
allowed)." He went to his maternal brother, Qatada bin N i 'man, who was one of the Badr warriors, 
and asked him about it. Qatada said, "After your departure, an order was issued by the Prophet (ﷺ) 
cancelling the prohibition of eating sacrifices after three days."
Bukhari:3998 Narrated `Urwa:Az-Zubair said, "I met Ubaida bin Sa`id bin Al-As on the day (of the battle) of Badr and he was 
covered with armor; so much that only his eyes were visible. He was surnamed Abu Dhat-al-Karish. 
He said (proudly), 'I am Abu-al-Karish.' I attacked him with the spear and pierced his eye and he died. 
I put my foot over his body to pull (that spear) out, but even then I had to use a great force to take it 
out as its both ends were bent." `Urwa said, "Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked Az-Zubair for the spear 
and he gave it to him. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, Az-Zubair took it back. After that Abu Bakr 
demanded it and he gave it to him, and when Abu Bakr died, Az-Zubair took it back. `Umar then 
demanded it from him and he gave it to him. When `Umar died, Az-Zubair took it back, and then 
`Uthman demanded it from him and he gave it to him. When `Uthman was martyred, the spear 
remained with `Ali's offspring. Then `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair demanded it back, and it remained with 
him till he was martyred.
Bukhari:3999 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:(who was one of the Badr warriors) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give me the pledge of allegiance."
Bukhari:4000 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Abu Hudhaifa, one of those who fought the battle of Badr, with Allah's 
Apostle adopted Salim as his son and married his niece Hind bint Al-Wahd bin `Utba to him' and 
Salim was a freed slave of an Ansari woman. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also adopted Zaid as his son. In the Prelslamic 
period of ignorance the custom was that, if one adopted a son, the people would call him by 
the name of the adopted-father whom he would inherit as well, till Allah revealed: "Call them 
(adopted sons) By (the names of) their fathers." (33.5)
