Bukhari:3001 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Journey is a piece of torture, for it disturbs one's sleep, eating and drinking. So, 
when you fulfill your job, you should hurry up to your family."
Bukhari:3002 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab gave a horse to be ridden in Allah's Cause and then he found it being sold. He 
intended to purchase it. So, he consulted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Don't buy it and don't take back 
your gift of charity."
Bukhari:3003 Narrated Aslam:I heard `Umar bin Al-Khattab saying, "I gave a horse to be ridden in Allah's Cause and the person 
who got it intended to sell it or neglected it. So, I wanted to buy it as I thought he would sell it cheap. I 
consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "Do not buy it even if for one Dirham, because he who takes back his 
gift is like a dog swallowing its vomit."
Bukhari:3004 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) asking his permission to take part in Jihad. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Are 
your parents alive?" He replied in the affirmative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Then exert yourself in 
their service."
Bukhari:3005 Narrated Abu Bashir Al-Ansari:That he was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on some of his journeys. (The sub-narrator `Abdullah 
adds, "I think that Abu Bashir also said, 'And the people were at their sleeping places.") Allah's 
Apostle sent a messenger ordering: "There shall not remain any necklace of string or any other kind of 
necklace round the necks of camels except it is cut off."
Bukhari:3006 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "It is not permissible for a man to be alone with a woman, and no 
lady should travel except with a Muhram (i.e. her husband or a person whom she cannot marry in any 
case for ever; e.g. her father, brother, etc.)." Then a man got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have 
enlisted in the army for such-and-such Ghazwa and my wife is proceeding for Hajj." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "Go, and perform the Hajj with your wife."
Bukhari:3007 Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Rafi`:I heard `Ali saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me, Az-Zubair and Al-Miqdad somewhere saying, 'Proceed 
till you reach Rawdat Khakh. There you will find a lady with a letter. Take the letter from her.' " So, 
we set out and our horses ran at full pace till we got at Ar-Rawda where we found the lady and said (to 
her). "Take out the letter." She replied, "I have no letter with me." We said, "Either you take out the 
letter or else we will take off your clothes." So, she took it out of her braid. We brought the letter to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and it contained a statement from Hatib bin Abi Balta a to some of the Meccan pagans 
informing them of some of the intentions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Hatib! 
What is this?" Hatib replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Don't hasten to give your judgment about me. I was 
a man closely connected with the Quraish, but I did not belong to this tribe, while the other emigrants 
with you, had their relatives in Mecca who would protect their dependents and property . So, I wanted 
to recompense for my lacking blood relation to them by doing them a favor so that they might protect 
my dependents. I did this neither because of disbelief not apostasy nor out of preferring Kufr 
(disbelief) to Islam." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), said, "Hatib has told you the truth." `Umar said, O Allah's 
Apostle! Allow me to chop off the head of this hypocrite." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Hatib participated in 
the battle of Badr, and who knows, perhaps Allah has already looked at the Badr warriors and said, 
'Do whatever you like, for I have forgiven you."
Bukhari:3008 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:When it was the day (of the battle) of Badr, prisoners of war were brought including Al-Abbas who 
was undressed. The Prophet (ﷺ) looked for a shirt for him. It was found that the shirt of `Abdullah bin 
Ubai would do, so the Prophet (ﷺ) let him wear it. That was the reason why the Prophet (ﷺ) took off and gave 
his own shirt to `Abdullah. (The narrator adds, "He had done the Prophet (ﷺ) some favor for which the 
Prophet liked to reward him.")
Bukhari:3009 Narrated Sahl:On the day (of the battle) of Khaibar the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow I will give the flag to somebody 
who will be given victory (by Allah) and who loves Allah and His Apostle and is loved by Allah and 
His Apostle." So, the people wondered all that night as to who would receive the flag and in the 
morning everyone hoped that he would be that person. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Where is `Ali?" He 
was told that `Ali was suffering from eye-trouble, so he applied saliva to his eyes and invoked Allah 
to cure him. He at once got cured as if he had no ailment. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave him the flag. `Ali said, 
"Should I fight them till they become like us (i.e. Muslim)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go to them patiently 
and calmly till you enter the land. Then, invite them to Islam, and inform them what is enjoined upon 
them, for, by Allah, if Allah gives guidance to somebody through you, it is better for you than 
possessing red camels."
Bukhari:3010 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah wonders at those people who will enter Paradise in chains."
Bukhari:3011 Narrated Abu Burda's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Three persons will get their reward twice. (One is) a person who has a slave girl 
and he educates her properly and teaches her good manners properly (without violence) and then 
manumits and marries her. Such a person will get a double reward. (Another is) a believer from the 
people of the scriptures who has been a true believer and then he believes in the Prophet (ﷺ) 
(Muhammad). Such a person will get a double reward. (The third is) a slave who observes Allah's 
Rights and Obligations and is sincere to his master."
Bukhari:3012 Narrated As-Sab bin Jaththama:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by me at a place called Al-Abwa or Waddan, and was asked whether it was 
permissible to attack the pagan warriors at night with the probability of exposing their women and 
children to danger. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "They (i.e. women and children) are from them (i.e. pagans)." 
I also heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The institution of Hima is invalid except for Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:3013 As above (hadith 3012)
Bukhari:3014 Narrated `Abdullah:During some of the Ghazawat of the Prophet (ﷺ) a woman was found killed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disapproved 
the killing of women and children.
Bukhari:3015 Narrated Ibn `Umar:During some of the Ghazawat of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a woman was found killed, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
forbade the killing of women and children.
Bukhari:3016 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent us in a mission (i.e., an army-unit) and said, "If you find so-and-so and so-and-so, 
burn both of them with fire." When we intended to depart, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have ordered you to 
burn so-and-so and so-and-so, and it is none but Allah Who punishes with fire, so, if you find them, 
kill them (i.e., don't burn them)."
Bukhari:3017 Narrated `Ikrima:`Ali burnt some people and this news reached Ibn `Abbas, who said, "Had I been in his place I would 
not have burnt them, as the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Don't punish (anybody) with Allah's Punishment.' No doubt, 
I would have killed them, for the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If somebody (a Muslim) discards his religion, kill 
him.' "
Bukhari:3018 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A group of eight men from the tribe of 'Ukil came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and then they found the climate of 
Medina unsuitable for them. So, they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Provide us with some milk." Allah's 
Apostle said, "I recommend that you should join the herd of camels." So they went and drank the 
urine and the milk of the camels (as a medicine) till they became healthy and fat. Then they killed the 
shepherd and drove away the camels, and they became unbelievers after whey were Muslims. When 
the Prophet (ﷺ) was informed by a shouter for help, he sent some men in their pursuit, and before the sun 
rose high, they were brought, and he had their hands and feet cut off. Then he ordered for nails which 
were heated and passed over their eyes, and whey were left in the Harra (i.e. rocky land in Medina). 
They asked for water, and nobody provided them with water till they died (Abu Qilaba, a sub-narrator 
said, "They committed murder and theft and fought against Allah and His Apostle, and spread evil in 
the land.")
Bukhari:3019 Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "An ant bit a Prophet amongst the Prophets, and he ordered that the place of the ants be burnt. So, Allah inspired to him, 'It is because one ant bit you that you burnt a nation amongst the nations that glorify Allah?"
Bukhari:3020 Narrated Jarir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s said to me, "Will you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa? Dhul-Khalasa was a house (of 
an idol) belonging to the tribe of Khath'am called Al-Ka`ba Al-Yama-niya. So, I proceeded with one 
hundred and fifty cavalry men from the tribe of Ahmas, who were excellent knights. It happened that I 
could not sit firm on horses, so the Prophet (ﷺ) , stroke me over my chest till I saw his finger-marks over 
my chest, he said, 'O Allah! Make him firm and make him a guiding and rightly guided man.' " Jarir 
proceeded towards that house, and dismantled and burnt it. Then he sent a messenger to Allah's 
Apostle informing him of that. Jarir's messenger said, "By Him Who has sent you with the Truth, I did 
not come to you till I had left it like an emancipated or gabby camel (i.e. completely marred and 
spoilt)." Jarir added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for Allah's Blessings for the horses and the men of Ahmas 
five times."
Bukhari:3021 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) burnt the date-palms of Bani An-Nadir.
Bukhari:3022 Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of Ansari men to kill Abu-Rafi`. One of them set out and entered their 
(i.e. the enemies) fort. That man said, "I hid myself in a stable for their animals. They closed the fort 
gate. Later they lost a donkey of theirs, so they went out in its search. I, too, went out along with them, 
pretending to look for it. They found the donkey and entered their fort. And I, too, entered along with 
them. They closed the gate of the fort at night, and kept its keys in a small window where I could see 
them. When those people slept, I took the keys and opened the gate of the fort and came upon Abu 
Rafi` and said, 'O Abu Rafi`. When he replied me, I proceeded towards the voice and hit him. He 
shouted and I came out to come back, pretending to be a helper. I said, 'O Abu Rafi`, changing the 
tone of my voice. He asked me, 'What do you want; woe to your mother?' I asked him, 'What has 
happened to you?' He said, 'I don't know who came to me and hit me.' Then I drove my sword into his 
belly and pushed it forcibly till it touched the bone. Then I came out, filled with puzzlement and went 
towards a ladder of theirs in order to get down but I fell down and sprained my foot. I came to my 
companions and said, 'I will not leave till I hear the wailing of the women.' So, I did not leave till I 
heard the women bewailing Abu Rafi`, the merchant pf Hijaz. Then I got up, feeling no ailment, (and 
we proceeded) till we came upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him."
Bukhari:3023 Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of the Ansar to Abu Rafi`. `Abdullah bin Atik entered his house at night 
and killed him while he was sleeping.
Bukhari:3024 Narrated Salim Abu An-Nadr:(the freed slave of 'Umar bin 'Ubaidullah) I was Umar's clerk. Once 
     Abdullah bin Abi Aufa wrote a letter to 'Umar when he proceeded to 
     Al-Haruriya. I read in it that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in one of his military 
     expeditions against the enemy, waited till the sun declined and then 
     he got up amongst the people saying, "O people! Do not wish to meet 
     the enemy, and ask Allah for safety, but when you face the enemy, be 
     patient, and remember that Paradise is under the shades of swords." 
     Then he said, "O Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book, and the Mover 
     of the clouds and the Defeater of the clans, defeat them, and grant us
     victory over them."
Bukhari:3025 Narrated Salim Abu An-Nadr:(the freed slave of 'Umar bin 'Ubaidullah) I was Umar's clerk. Once 
     Abdullah bin Abi Aufa wrote a letter to 'Umar when he proceeded to 
     Al-Haruriya. I read in it that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in one of his military 
     expeditions against the enemy, waited till the sun declined and then 
     he got up amongst the people saying, "O people! Do not wish to meet 
     the enemy, and ask Allah for safety, but when you face the enemy, be 
     patient, and remember that Paradise is under the shades of swords." 
     Then he said, "O Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book, and the Mover 
     of the clouds and the Defeater of the clans, defeat them, and grant us
     victory over them."
Bukhari:3026 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Do not wish to meet the enemy, but when you meet 
     face) the enemy, be patient."
Bukhari:3027 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Khosrau will be ruined, and there will be no Khosrau after him, and Caesar will 
surely be ruined and there will be no Caesar after him, and you will spend their treasures in Allah's 
Cause." He called, "War is deceit'.
Bukhari:3028 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Khosrau will be ruined, and there will be no Khosrau after him, and Caesar will 
surely be ruined and there will be no Caesar after him, and you will spend their treasures in Allah's 
Cause." He called, "War is deceit'.
Bukhari:3029 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called,: "War is deceit".
Bukhari:3030 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "War is deceit."
Bukhari:3031 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who is ready to kill Ka`b bin Al-Ashraf who has really hurt Allah and His 
Apostle?" Muhammad bin Maslama said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you like me to kill him?" He replied 
in the affirmative. So, Muhammad bin Maslama went to him (i.e. Ka`b) and said, "This person (i.e. 
the Prophet) has put us to task and asked us for charity." Ka`b replied, "By Allah, you will get tired of 
him." Muhammad said to him, "We have followed him, so we dislike to leave him till we see the end 
of his affair." Muhammad bin Maslama went on talking to him in this way till he got the chance to kill 
him.
Bukhari:3032 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who is ready to kill Ka`b bin Ashraf (i.e. a Jew)." Muhammad bin Maslama 
replied, "Do you like me to kill him?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative. Muhammad bin 
Maslama said, "Then allow me to say what I like." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I do (i.e. allow you).
Bukhari:3033 Narrated 'Abdullah bin Umar (ra):Once, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) accompanied by Ubai bin Ka'b set out to Ibn Saiyyad. He was informed that Ibn Saiyyad was in a garden of date palms. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the garden of date-palms, he started hiding himself behind the trunks of the palms while Ibn Saiyyad was covered with a velvet sheet with murmurs emanating from under it. Ibn Saiyyah's mother saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Saf! This is Muhammad." So Ibn Saiyyad got up. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If she had left him (in his state), the truth would have been clear."
Bukhari:3034 Narrated Al-Bara:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of the Trench carrying earth till the hair of his chest 
were covered with dust and he was a hairy man. He was reciting the following verses of `Abdullah 
(bin Rawaha): "O Allah, were it not for You, We would not have been guided, Nor would we have 
given in charity, nor prayed. So, bestow on us calmness, and when we meet the enemy. Then make 
our feet firm, for indeed, Yet if they want to put us in affliction, (i.e. want to fight against us) we 
would not (flee but withstand them)." The Prophet (ﷺ) used to raise his voice while reciting these verses. 
(See Hadith No. 432, Vol. 5).
Bukhari:3035 Narrated Jarir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me since my embracing Islam, and whenever he saw me 
he would receive me with a smile. Once I told him that I could not sit firm on horses. He stroke me on 
the chest with his hand and said, "O Allah! Make him firm and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man."
Bukhari:3036 Narrated Jarir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me since my embracing Islam, and whenever he saw me 
he would receive me with a smile. Once I told him that I could not sit firm on horses. He stroke me on 
the chest with his hand and said, "O Allah! Make him firm and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man."
Bukhari:3037 Narrated Abu Hazim:The people asked Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa' idi "With what thing (medicine) was the wound of Allah's 
Apostle treated?" He replied, "There is none left (living) amongst the people who knows it better than. 
`Ali used to bring water in his shield and Fatima (i.e. the Prophet's daughter) used to wash the blood 
off his face. Then a mat (of palm leaves) was burnt and its ash was inserted in the wound of Allah's 
Apostle."
Bukhari:3038 Narrated Abu Burda:That his father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh and Abu Musa to Yemen telling them. 'Treat the 
people with ease and don't be hard on them; give them glad tidings and don't fill them with aversion; 
and love each other, and don't differ."
Bukhari:3039 Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed `Abdullah bin Jubair as the commander of the infantry men (archers) who were 
fifty on the day (of the battle) of Uhud. He instructed them, "Stick to your place, and don't leave it 
even if you see birds snatching us, till I send for you; and if you see that we have defeated the infidels 
and made them flee, even then you should not leave your place till I send for you." Then the infidels 
were defeated. By Allah, I saw the women fleeing lifting up their clothes revealing their leg-bangles 
and their legs. So, the companions of `Abdullah bin Jubair said, "The booty! O people, the booty ! 
Your companions have become victorious, what are you waiting for now?" `Abdullah bin Jubair said, 
"Have you forgotten what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to you?" They replied, "By Allah! We will go to the 
people (i.e. the enemy) and collect our share from the war booty." But when they went to them, they 
were forced to turn back defeated. At that time Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in their rear was calling them back. 
Only twelve men remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) and the infidels martyred seventy men from us. 
On the day (of the battle) of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions had caused the 'Pagans to lose 140 
men, seventy of whom were captured and seventy were killed. Then Abu Sufyan asked thrice, "Is 
Muhammad present amongst these people?" The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions not to answer him. 
Then he asked thrice, "Is the son of Abu Quhafa present amongst these people?" He asked again 
thrice, "Is the son of Al-Khattab present amongst these people?" He then returned to his companions 
and said, "As for these (men), they have been killed." `Umar could not control himself and said (to 
Abu Sufyan), "You told a lie, by Allah! O enemy of Allah! All those you have mentioned are alive, 
and the thing which will make you unhappy is still there." Abu Sufyan said, "Our victory today is a 
counterbalance to yours in the battle of Badr, and in war (the victory) is always undecided and is 
shared in turns by the belligerents, and you will find some of your (killed) men mutilated, but I did not 
urge my men to do so, yet I do not feel sorry for their deed" After that he started reciting cheerfully, 
"O Hubal, be high! (1) On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Why don't you answer him 
back?" They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) What shall we say?" He said, "Say, Allah is Higher and more 
Sublime." (Then) Abu Sufyan said, "We have the (idol) Al `Uzza, and you have no `Uzza." The 
Prophet said (to his companions), "Why don't you answer him back?" They asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
What shall we say?" He said, "Says Allah is our Helper and you have no helper."
Bukhari:3040 Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the (most handsome), most generous and the bravest of all the people. Once the 
people of Medina got frightened having heard an uproar at night. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) met the people while 
he was riding an unsaddled horse belonging to Abu Talha and carrying his sword (slung over his 
shoulder). He said (to them), "Don't get scared, don't get scared." Then he added, "I found it (i.e the 
horse) very fast."
Bukhari:3041 Narrated Salama:I went out of Medina towards Al-Ghaba. When I reached the mountain path of Al-Ghaba, a slave of 
`Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf met me. I said to him, "Woe to you! What brought you here?" He replied, 
"The she-camels of the Prophet (ﷺ) have been taken away." I said, "Who took them?" He said, "Ghatafan 
and Fazara." So, I sent three cries, "O Sabaha-h ! O Sabahah !" so loudly that made the people in 
between its (i.e. Medina's) two mountains hear me. Then I rushed till I met them after they had taken 
the camels away. I started throwing arrows at them saying, "I am the son of Al-Akwa`"; and today 
perish the mean people!" So, I saved the she-camels from them before they (i.e. the robbers) could 
drink water. When I returned driving the camels, the Prophet (ﷺ) met me, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Those 
people are thirsty and I have prevented them from drinking water, so send some people to chase 
them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O son of Al-Akwa`, you have gained power (over your enemy), so forgive 
(them). (Besides) those people are now being entertained by their folk."
Bukhari:3042 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:A man asked Al-Bara "O Abu '`Umara! Did you flee on the day (of the battle) of Hunain?" Al-Bara 
replied while I was listening, "As for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he did not flee on that day. Abu Sufyan bin Al- 
Harith was holding the reins of his mule and when the pagans attacked him, he dismounted and started 
saying, 'I am the Prophet, and there is no lie about it; I am the son of `Abdul Muttalib.' On that day 
nobody was seen braver than the Prophet.
Bukhari:3043 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:When the tribe of Bani Quraiza was ready to accept Sa`d's judgment, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for Sa`d 
who was near to him. Sa`d came, riding a donkey and when he came near, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to the 
Ansar), "Stand up for your leader." Then Sa`d came and sat beside Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said to him. 
"These people are ready to accept your judgment." Sa`d said, "I give the judgment that their warriors 
should be killed and their children and women should be taken as prisoners." The Prophet (ﷺ) then 
remarked, "O Sa`d! You have judged amongst them with (or similar to) the judgment of the King 
Allah."
Bukhari:3044 Narrated Anas bin Malik (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered (Makkah) in the year of the Conquest (of Makkah) wearing a helmet over his head. After he took it off, a man came and said, "Ibn Khatal is clinging to the curtains of the Ka'bah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill him."
Bukhari:3045 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a Sariya of ten men as spies under the leadership of `Asim bin Thabit al-Ansari, 
the grandfather of `Asim bin `Umar Al-Khattab. They proceeded till they reached Hadaa, a place 
between 'Usfan, and Mecca, and their news reached a branch of the tribe of Hudhail called Bani 
Lihyan. About two-hundred men, who were all archers, hurried to follow their tracks till they found 
the place where they had eaten dates they had brought with them from Medina. They said, "These are 
the dates of Yathrib (i.e. Medina), "and continued following their tracks When `Asim and his 
companions saw their pursuers, they went up a high place and the infidels circled them. The infidels 
said to them, "Come down and surrender, and we promise and guarantee you that we will not kill any 
one of you" `Asim bin Thabit; the leader of the Sariya said, "By Allah! I will not come down to be 
under the protection of infidels. O Allah! Convey our news to Your Prophet. Then the infidels threw 
arrows at them till they martyred `Asim along with six other men, and three men came down 
accepting their promise and convention, and they were Khubaib-al-Ansari and Ibn Dathina and 
another man So, when the infidels captured them, they undid the strings of their bows and tied them. 
Then the third (of the captives) said, "This is the first betrayal. By Allah! I will not go with you. No 
doubt these, namely the martyred, have set a good example to us." So, they dragged him and tried to 
compel him to accompany them, but as he refused, they killed him. They took Khubaid and Ibn 
Dathina with them and sold them (as slaves) in Mecca (and all that took place) after the battle of Badr. 
Khubaib was bought by the sons of Al-Harith bin 'Amir bin Naufal bin `Abd Manaf. It was Khubaib 
who had killed Al-Harith bin 'Amir on the day (of the battle of) Badr. So, Khubaib remained a 
prisoner with those people. 
Narrated Az-Zuhri: 'Ubaidullah bin 'Iyyad said that the daughter of Al-Harith had told him, "When 
those people gathered (to kill Khubaib) he borrowed a razor from me to shave his pubes and I gave it 
to him. Then he took a son of mine while I was unaware when he came upon him. I saw him placing 
my son on his thigh and the razor was in his hand. I got scared so much that Khubaib noticed the 
agitation on my face and said, 'Are you afraid that I will kill him? No, I will never do so.' By Allah, I 
never saw a prisoner better than Khubaib. By Allah, one day I saw him eating of a bunch of grapes in 
his hand while he was chained in irons, and there was no fruit at that time in Mecca." The daughter of 
Al-Harith used to say, "It was a boon Allah bestowed upon Khubaib." When they took him out of the 
Sanctuary (of Mecca) to kill him outside its boundaries, Khubaib requested them to let him offer two 
rak`at (prayer). 
They allowed him and he offered Two rak`at and then said, "Hadn't I been afraid that you would think 
that I was afraid (of being killed), I would have prolonged the prayer. O Allah, kill them all with no 
exception." (He then recited the poetic verse):-- "I being martyred as a Muslim, Do not mind how I am 
killed in Allah's Cause, For my killing is for Allah's Sake, And if Allah wishes, He will bless the 
amputated parts of a torn body" Then the son of Al Harith killed him. So, it was Khubaib who set the 
tradition for any Muslim sentenced to death in captivity, to offer a two-rak`at prayer (before being 
killed). Allah fulfilled the invocation of `Asim bin Thabit on that very day on which he was martyred. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) informed his companions of their news and what had happened to them. Later on when 
some infidels from Quraish were informed that `Asim had been killed, they sent some people to fetch 
a part of his body (i.e. his head) by which he would be recognized. (That was because) `Asim had 
killed one of their chiefs on the day (of the battle) of Badr. So, a swarm of wasps, resembling a shady 
cloud, were sent to hover over `Asim and protect him from their messenger and thus they could not 
cut off anything from his flesh.
Bukhari:3046 Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Free the captives, feed the hungry and pay a visit to the sick."
Bukhari:3047 Narrated Abu Juhaifa:I asked `Ali, "Do you have the knowledge of any Divine Inspiration besides what is in Allah's Book?" 
`Ali replied, "No, by Him Who splits the grain of corn and creates the soul. I don't think we have such 
knowledge, but we have the ability of understanding which Allah may endow a person with, so that he 
may understand the Qur'an, and we have what is written in this paper as well." I asked, "What is 
written in this paper?" He replied, "(The regulations of) blood-money, the freeing of captives, and the 
judgment that no Muslim should be killed for killing an infidel."
Bukhari:3048 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Some Ansari men asked permission from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow us not to 
take the ransom of our nephew Al `Abbas. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Do not leave a single Dirham 
thereof."
Bukhari:3049 (In another narration) Anas said:"Some wealth was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) from Bahrain. Al `Abbas 
came to him and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me (some of it), as I have paid my and `Aqil's ransom.' 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take,' and gave him in his garment."
Bukhari:3050 Narrated Jubair:(who was among the captives of the Battle of Badr) I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting 'Surat-at-Tur' in the 
Maghrib prayer.
Bukhari:3051 Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:"An infidel spy came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was on a journey. The spy sat with the companions of 
the Prophet (ﷺ) and started talking and then went away. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), 'Chase and 
kill him.' So, I killed him." The Prophet (ﷺ) then gave him the belongings of the killed spy (in addition to 
his share of the war booty).
Bukhari:3052 Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:`Umar (after he was stabbed), instructed (his would-be-successor) saying, "I urge him (i.e. the new 
Caliph) to take care of those non-Muslims who are under the protection of Allah and His Apostle in 
that he should observe the convention agreed upon with them, and fight on their behalf (to secure their 
safety) and he should not over-tax them beyond their capability."
Bukhari:3053 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Abbas said, "Thursday! What (great thing) took place on Thursday!" Then he started weeping till 
his tears wetted the gravels of the ground . Then he said, "On Thursday the illness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
was aggravated and he said, "Fetch me writing materials so that I may have something written to you 
after which you will never go astray." The people (present there) differed in this matter and people 
should not differ before a prophet. They said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is seriously sick.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Let me alone, as the state in which I am now, is better than what you are calling me for." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
on his death-bed, gave three orders saying, "Expel the pagans from the Arabian Peninsula, respect and 
give gifts to the foreign delegates as you have seen me dealing with them." I forgot the third (order)" 
(Ya'qub bin Muhammad said, "I asked Al-Mughira bin `Abdur-Rahman about the Arabian Peninsula 
and he said, 'It comprises Mecca, Medina, Al-Yama-ma and Yemen." Ya'qub added, "And Al-Arj, the 
beginning of Tihama.")
Bukhari:3054 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar saw a silken cloak being sold in the market and he brought it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Buy this cloak and adorn yourself with it on the `Id festivals and on meeting the 
delegations." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "This is the dress for the one who will have no share in the 
Hereafter (or, this is worn by one who will have no share in the Hereafter)." After sometime had 
passed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a silken cloak to `Umar. `Umar took it and brought it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have said that this is the dress of that who will have no share in the 
Hereafter (or, this is worn by one who will have no share in the Hereafter), yet you have sent me this!" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said," I have sent it) so that you may sell it or fulfill with it some of your needs."
Bukhari:3055 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:Umar and a group of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) set out with the 
     Prophet to Ibn Saiyad. He found him playing with some boys near the 
     hillocks of Bani Maghala. Ibn Saiyad at that time was nearing his 
     puberty. He did not notice (the Prophet's presence) till the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     stroked him on the back with his hand and said, "Ibn Saiyad! Do you 
     testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said,
     "I testify that you are the Apostle of the illiterates."Then Ibn Saiyad asked the Prophet. "Do you testify that I am the 
     apostle of Allah?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I believe in Allah and 
     His Apostles." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Ibn Saiyad). "What do you 
     see?" Ibn Saiyad replied, "True people and false ones visit me." The 
     Prophet said, "Your mind is confused as to this matter." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
     added, " I have kept something (in my mind) for you." Ibn Saiyad said,
     "It is Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Shame be on you! You 
     cannot cross your limits." On that 'Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
     Allow me to chop his head off." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If he should be him
     (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) then you cannot overpower him, and should he not be 
     him, then you are not going to benefit by murdering him."
Bukhari:3056 Narrated Ibn Umar:(Later on) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (once again) went along with Ubai bin Ka'b 
     to the garden of date-palms where Ibn Saiyad was staying. When the 
     Prophet entered the garden, he started hiding himself behind the 
     trunks of the date-palms as he wanted to hear something from the Ibn 
     Saiyad before the latter could see him. Ibn Saiyad was lying in his 
     bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his murmurs were heard. 
     Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was hiding himself behind
     the trunks of the date-palms. She addressed Ibn Saiyad, "O Saf!" (And 
     this was his name). Ibn Saiyad got up. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had this 
     woman let him to himself, he would have revealed the reality of his 
     case." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) got up amongst the people, glorifying Allah as
     He deserves, he mentioned Ad-Dajjal, saying, "I warn you about him 
     (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) and there is no prophet who did not warn his nation 
     about him, and Noah warned his nation about him, but I tell you a 
     statement which no prophet informed his nation of. You should 
     understand that he is a one-eyed man and Allah is not one-eyed."
Bukhari:3057 Narrated Ibn Umar:(Later on) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (once again) went along with Ubai bin Ka'b 
     to the garden of date-palms where Ibn Saiyad was staying. When the 
     Prophet entered the garden, he started hiding himself behind the 
     trunks of the date-palms as he wanted to hear something from the Ibn 
     Saiyad before the latter could see him. Ibn Saiyad was lying in his 
     bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his murmurs were heard. 
     Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was hiding himself behind
     the trunks of the date-palms. She addressed Ibn Saiyad, "O Saf!" (And 
     this was his name). Ibn Saiyad got up. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had this 
     woman let him to himself, he would have revealed the reality of his 
     case." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) got up amongst the people, glorifying Allah as
     He deserves, he mentioned Ad-Dajjal, saying, "I warn you about him 
     (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) and there is no prophet who did not warn his nation 
     about him, and Noah warned his nation about him, but I tell you a 
     statement which no prophet informed his nation of. You should 
     understand that he is a one-eyed man and Allah is not one-eyed."
Bukhari:3058 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) during his Hajj, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Where will you stay tomorrow?" He said, 
"Has `Aqil left for us any house?" He then added, "Tomorrow we will stay at Khaif Bani Kinana, i.e. 
Al-Muhassab, where (the Pagans of) Quraish took an oath of Kufr (i.e. to be loyal to heathenism) in 
that Bani Kinana got allied with Quraish against Bani Hashim on the terms that they would not deal 
with the members of the is tribe or give them shelter." (Az-Zuhri said, "Khaif means valley.") (See 
Hadith No. 659, Vol. 2)
Bukhari:3059 Narrated Aslam:`Umar bin Al-Khattab appointed a freed slave of his, called Hunai, manager of the Hima (i.e. a pasture 
devoted for grazing the animals of the Zakat or other specified animals). He said to him, "O Hunai! 
Don't oppress the Muslims and ward off their curse (invocations against you) for the invocation of the 
oppressed is responded to (by Allah); and allow the shepherd having a few camels and those having a 
few sheep (to graze their animals), and take care not to allow the livestock of `Abdur-Rahman bin 
`Auf and the livestock of (`Uthman) bin `Affan, for if their livestock should perish, then they have 
their farms and gardens, while those who own a few camels and those who own a few sheep, if their 
livestock should perish, would bring their dependents to me and appeal for help saying, 'O chief of the 
believers! O chief of the believers!' Would I then neglect them? (No, of course). So, I find it easier to 
let them have water and grass rather than to give them gold and silver (from the Muslims' treasury). 
By Allah, these people think that I have been unjust to them. This is their land, and during the prelslamic 
period, they fought for it and they embraced Islam (willingly) while it was in their possession. 
By Him in Whose Hand my life is! Were it not for the animals (in my custody) which I give to be 
ridden for striving in Allah's Cause, I would not have turned even a span of their land into a Hima."
Bukhari:3060 Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to us), " List the names of those people who have announced that they are 
Muslims." So, we listed one thousand and five hundred men. Then we wondered, "Should we be 
afraid (of infidels) although we are one thousand and five hundred in number?" No doubt, we 
witnessed ourselves being afflicted with such bad trials that one would have to offer the prayer alone 
in fear.Narrated Al-A`mash:"We (listed the Muslims and) found them five hundred." 
And Abu Muawiya said, "Between six hundred to seven hundred."
Bukhari:3061 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have enlisted in the army for such-andsuch 
Ghazwa, and my wife is leaving for Hajj." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Go back and perform Hajj with 
your wife."
Bukhari:3062 Narrated Az-Zuhri:as follows in Hadith 297.Narrated Abu Huraira:We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a Ghazwa, and he remarked about a man who claimed 
to be a Muslim, saying, "This (man) is from the people of the (Hell) Fire." When the battle started, the 
man fought violently till he got wounded. Somebody said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The man whom you 
described as being from the people of the (Hell) Fire fought violently today and died." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "He will go to the (Hell) Fire." Some people were on the point of doubting (the truth of what the 
Prophet had said) while they were in this state, suddenly someone said that he was still alive but 
severely wounded. When night fell, he lost patience and committed suicide. The Prophet (ﷺ) was 
informed of that, and he said, "Allah is Greater! I testify that I am Allah's Slave and His Apostle." 
Then he ordered Bilal to announce amongst the people: 'None will enter Paradise but a Muslim, and 
Allah may support this religion (i.e. Islam) even with a disobedient man.'
Bukhari:3063 Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "Zaid received the flag and was martyred, then Ja`far 
took it and was martyred, then `Abdullah bin Rawaha took it and was martyred, and then Khalid bin 
Al-Walid took it without being appointed, and Allah gave him victory." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I am not 
pleased (or they will not be pleased) that they should remain (alive) with us," while his eyes were 
shedding tears.
Bukhari:3064 Narrated Anas:The people of the tribes of Ril, Dhakwan, 'Usiya and Bani Lihyan came 
     to the Prophet (ﷺ) and claimed that they had embraced Islam, and they 
     requested him to support them with some men to fight their own people.
     The Prophet (ﷺ) supported them with seventy men from the Ansar whom we 
     used to call Al-Qurra'(i.e. Scholars) who (out of piety) used to cut 
     wood during the day and pray all the night. So, those people took the 
     (seventy) men till they reached a place called Bi'r-Ma'ana where they 
     betrayed and martyred them. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on the tribe 
     of Ril, Dhakwan and Bani Lihyan for one month in the prayer.Narrated Qatada: Anas told us that they (i.e. Muslims) used to recite 
     a Quranic Verse concerning those martyrs which was:-- "O Allah! Let 
     our people be informed on our behalf that we have met our Lord Who has
     got pleased with us and made us pleased." Then the Verse was 
     cancelled.
Bukhari:3065 Narrated Abu Talha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) conquered some people, he would stay in their town for three days.
Bukhari:3066 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed `Umra, setting out from Al-Jarana where he distributed the war booty of 
Hunain.
Bukhari:3067 Narrated Nafi' (ra):A horse of Ibn 'Umar fled and the enemy took it. Then the Muslims conquered the enemy and the horse was returned to him during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). And also, once a slave of Ibn 'Umar (ra) fled and joined the Byzantines, and when the Muslims conquered them, Khalid bin Al-Walid returned the slave to him after the death of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Bukhari:3068 Narrated Nafi`:Once a slave of Ibn `Umar fled and joined the Byzantine. Khalid bin Al-Walid got him back and 
returned him to `Abdullah (bin `Umar). Once a horse of Ibn `Umar also ran away and followed the 
Byzantines, and he (i.e. Khalid) got it back and returned it to `Abdullah.
Bukhari:3069 Narrated Ibn `Umar:That he was riding a horse on the day, the Muslims fought (against the Byzantines), and the 
commander of the Muslim army was Khalid bin Al-Walid who had been appointed by Abu Bakr. The 
enemy took the horse away, and when the enemy was defeated, Khalid returned the horse to him.
Bukhari:3070 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We have slaughtered a young sheep of ours and have ground one Sa of 
barley. So, I invite you along with some persons." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) said in a loud voice, "O the people 
of the Trench! Jabir had prepared "Sur" so come along."
Bukhari:3071 Narrated Um Khalid:(the daughter of Khalid bin Sa`id) I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with my father and I was Nearing a 
yellow shirt. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Sanah, Sanah!" (`Abdullah, the narrator, said that 'Sanah' meant 
'good' in the Ethiopian language). I then started playing with the seal of Prophethood (in between the 
Prophet's shoulders) and my father rebuked me harshly for that. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. "Leave her," and 
then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (invoked Allah to grant me a long life) by saying (thrice), "Wear this dress till it 
is worn out and then wear it till it is worn out, and then wear it till it is worn out." (The narrator adds, 
"It is said that she lived for a long period, wearing that (yellow) dress till its color became dark 
because of long wear.")
Bukhari:3072 Narrated Abu Huraira:Al-Hasan bin 'All took a date from the dates of the Sadaqa and put it in his mouth. The Prophet (ﷺ) said 
(to him) in Persian, "Kakh, kakh! (i.e. Don't you know that we do not eat the Sadaqa (i.e. what is 
given in charity) (charity is the dirt of the people)).
Bukhari:3073 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) got up amongst us and mentioned Al Ghulul, emphasized its magnitude and declared that 
it was a great sin saying, "Don't commit Ghulul for I should not like to see anyone amongst you on the 
Day of Ressurection, carrying over his neck a sheep that will be bleating, or carrying over his neck a 
horse that will be neighing. Such a man will be saying: 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Intercede with Allah for 
me,' and I will reply, 'I can't help you, for I have conveyed Allah's Message to you Nor should I like to 
see a man carrying over his neck, a camel that will be grunting. Such a man will say, 'O Allah's 
Apostle! Intercede with Allah for me, and I will say, 'I can't help you for I have conveyed Allah's 
Message to you,' or one carrying over his neck gold and silver and saying, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Intercede with Allah for me,' and I will say, 'I can't help you for I have conveyed Allah's Message to 
you,' or one carrying clothes that will be fluttering, and the man will say, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Intercede 
with Allah for me.' And I will say, 'I can't help you, for I have conveyed Allah's Message to you."
Bukhari:3074 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:There was a man who looked after the family and the belongings of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was called 
Karkara. The man died and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He is in the '(Hell) Fire." The people then went to 
look at him and found in his place, a cloak he had stolen from the war booty.
Bukhari:3075 Narrated Abaya bin Rifaa:My grandfather, Rafi` said, "We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) at DhulHulaifa, and the people 
suffered from hunger. We got some camels and sheep (as booty) and the Prophet (ﷺ) was still behind the 
people. They hurried and put the cooking pots on the fire. (When he came) he ordered that the cooking 
pots should be upset and then he distributed the booty (amongst the people) regarding ten sheep as 
equal to one camel then a camel fled and the people chased it till they got tired, as they had a few 
horses (for chasing it). So a man threw an arrow at it and caused it to stop (with Allah's Permission). 
On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Some of these animals behave like wild beasts, so, if any animal flee from 
you, deal with it in the same way." My grandfather asked (the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "We hope (or are afraid) that 
we may meet the enemy tomorrow and we have no knives. Can we slaughter our animals with canes?" 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "If the instrument used for killing causes the animal to bleed profusely and if 
Allah's Name is mentioned on killing it, then eat its meat (i.e. it is lawful) but won't use a tooth or a 
nail and I am telling you the reason: A tooth is a bone (and slaughtering with a bone is forbidden ), 
and a nail is the slaughtering instrument of the Ethiopians."
Bukhari:3076 Narrated Qais:Jarir bin `Abdullah said to me, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, 'Won't you relieve me from Dhul- 
Khalasa?' Dhul-Khalasa was a house where the tribe of Khatham used to stay, and it used to be called 
Ka`bat-ul Yamaniya. So I proceeded with one hundred-and-fifty (men) from the tribe of Ahmas who 
were good cavalry. I informed the Prophet (ﷺ) that I could not sit firm on horses, so he stroke me on the 
chest with his hand and I noticed his finger marks on my chest. He invoked, 'O Allah! Make him firm 
and a guiding and rightly-guided man." Jarir set out towards that place, dismantled and burnt it, and 
then sent the good news to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . The messenger of Jarir said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). "O Allah's 
Apostle! By Him Who has sent you with the Truth, I did not come to you till it (i.e. the house) had 
been turned (black) like a scabby camel (covered with tar)." So the Prophet (ﷺ) invokes Allah to Bless the 
horses of the men of Ahmas five times.
Bukhari:3077 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, on the day of the Conquest of Mecca, "There is no migration (after the Conquest), 
but Jihad and good intentions, and when you are called for Jihad, you should immediately respond to 
the call."
Bukhari:3078 Narrated Abu `Uthman An-Nahdi:Mujashi (bin Mas`ud) took his brother Mujalid bin Musud to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "This is Mujalid 
and he will give a pledge of allegiance to you for migration." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no migration 
after the Conquest of Mecca, but I will take his pledge of allegiance for Islam."
Bukhari:3079 Narrated Abu `Uthman An-Nahdi:Mujashi (bin Mas`ud) took his brother Mujalid bin Musud to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "This is Mujalid 
and he will give a pledge of allegiance to you for migration." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no migration 
after the Conquest of Mecca, but I will take his pledge of allegiance for Islam."
Bukhari:3080 Narrated `Ata':I and 'Ubai bin `Umar went to `Aisha while she was staying near Thabir (i.e. a mountain). She said, 
"There is no Migration after Allah gave His Prophet victory over Mecca."
Bukhari:3081 Narrated Sa`d bin 'Ubaida:Abu `Abdur-Rahman who was one of the supporters of `Uthman said to Abu Talha who was one of 
the supporters of `Ali, "I perfectly know what encouraged your leader (i.e. `Ali) to shed blood. I heard 
him saying: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sent me and Az-Zubair saying, 'Proceed to such-and-such Ar-Roudah 
(place) where you will find a lady whom Hatib has given a letter. So when we arrived at Ar-Roudah, 
we requested the lady to hand over the letter to us. She said, 'Hatib has not given me any letter.' We 
said to her. 'Take out the letter or else we will strip off your clothes.' So she took it out of her braid. So 
the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Hatib, (who came) and said, 'Don't hurry in judging me, for, by Allah, I have not 
become a disbeliever, and my love to Islam is increasing. (The reason for writing this letter was) that 
there is none of your companions but has relatives in Mecca who look after their families and 
property, while I have nobody there, so I wanted to do them some favor (so that they might look after 
my family and property).' The Prophet (ﷺ) believed him. `Umar said, 'Allow me to chop off his (i.e. 
Hatib's) neck as he has done hypocrisy.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (to `Umar), 'Who knows, perhaps Allah has 
looked at the warriors of Badr and said (to them), 'Do whatever you like, for I have forgiven you.' " 
`Abdur-Rahman added, "So this is what encouraged him (i.e. `Ali).
Bukhari:3082 Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:Ibn Az-Zubair said to Ibn Ja`far "Do you remember when I, you and Ibn `Abbas went out to receive 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Ibn Ja`far replied in the affirmative. Ibn Az-Zubair added, "And Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
made us (i.e. I and Ibn `Abbas) ride along with him and left you."
Bukhari:3083 Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:I along with some boys went out to receive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Thaniyatal-Wada`.
Bukhari:3084 Narrated `Abdullah:When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned (from Jihad), he would say Takbir thrice and add, "We are returning, if 
Allah wishes, with repentance and worshipping and praising (our Lord) and prostrating ourselves 
before our Lord. Allah fulfilled His Promise and helped His Slave, and He Alone defeated the (infidel) 
clans."
Bukhari:3085 Narrated Anas bin Malik:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) while returning from 'Usfan, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was riding 
his she-camel keeping Safiya bint Huyay riding behind him. His she-camel slipped and both of them 
fell down. Abu Talha jumped from his camel and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May Allah sacrifice me for 
you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take care of the lady." So, Abu Talha covered his face with a garment and 
went to Safiya and covered her with it, and then he set right the condition of their shecamel so that 
both of them rode, and we were encircling Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) like a cover. When we approached Medina, 
the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are returning with repentance and worshipping and praising our Lord." He kept 
on saying this till he entered Medina.
Bukhari:3086 Narrated Anas bin Malik:That he and Abu Talha came in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and Safiya was accompanying the 
Prophet, who let her ride behind him on his she-camel. During the journey, the she-camel slipped and 
both the Prophet (ﷺ) and (his) wife fell down. Abu Talha (the sub-narrator thinks that Anas said that Abu 
Talha jumped from his camel quickly) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May Allah sacrifice me for your sake! 
Did you get hurt?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied,"No, but take care of the lady." Abu Talha covered his face 
with his garment and proceeded towards her and covered her with his garment, and she got up. He 
then set right the condition of their she-camel and both of them (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) and his wife) rode and 
proceeded till they approached Medina. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are returning with repentance and 
worshipping and praising our Lord." The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on saying this statement till he entered Medina.
Bukhari:3087 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I was on a journey in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and when we reached Medina, he said to me, "Enter 
the Mosque and offer two rak`at."
Bukhari:3088 Narrated Ka`b:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey in the forenoon, he would enter the Mosque and offer 
two rak`at before sitting.
Bukhari:3089 Narrated Muharib bin Dithar:Jabir bin `Abdullah said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, he slaughtered a camel or a cow." 
Jabir added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) bought a camel from me for two Uqiyas (of gold) and one or two Dirhams. 
When he reached Sirar, he ordered that a cow be slaughtered and they ate its meat. When he arrived at 
Medina, he ordered me to go to the Mosque and offer two rak`at, and weighed (and gave) me the price 
of the camel."
Bukhari:3090 Narrated Jabir:Once I returned from a journey and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to me) "Offer two rak`at." (Sirar is a place near 
Medina).
Bukhari:3091 Narrated `Ali:I got a she-camel in my share of the war booty on the day (of the battle) of Badr, and the Prophet (ﷺ) had 
given me a she-camel from the Khumus. When I intended to marry Fatima, the daughter of Allah's 
Apostle, I had an appointment with a goldsmith from the tribe of Bani Qainuqa' to go with me to bring 
Idhkhir (i.e. grass of pleasant smell) and sell it to the goldsmiths and spend its price on my wedding 
party. I was collecting for my she-camels equipment of saddles, sacks and ropes while my two shecamels 
were kneeling down beside the room of an Ansari man. I returned after collecting whatever I 
collected, to see the humps of my two she-camels cut off and their flanks cut open and some portion 
of their livers was taken out. When I saw that state of my two she-camels, I could not help weeping. I 
asked, "Who has done this?" The people replied, "Hamza bin `Abdul Muttalib who is staying with 
some Ansari drunks in this house." I went away till I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) and Zaid bin Haritha was 
with him. The Prophet (ﷺ) noticed on my face the effect of what I had suffered, so the Prophet (ﷺ) asked. 
"What is wrong with you." I replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have never seen such a day as today. 
Hamza attacked my two she-camels, cut off their humps, and ripped open their flanks, and he is sitting 
there in a house in the company of some drunks." The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for his covering sheet, put it 
on, and set out walking followed by me and Zaid bin Haritha till he came to the house where Hamza 
was. He asked permission to enter, and they allowed him, and they were drunk. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started 
rebuking Hamza for what he had done, but Hamza was drunk and his eyes were red. Hamza looked at 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then he raised his eyes, looking at his knees, then he raised up his eyes looking at 
his umbilicus, and again he raised up his eyes look in at his face. Hamza then said, "Aren't you but the 
slaves of my father?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) realized that he was drunk, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) retreated, and we 
went out with him.
Bukhari:3092 Narrated `Aisha:(mother of the believers) After the death of Allah 's Apostle Fatima the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
asked Abu Bakr As-Siddiq to give her, her share of inheritance from what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had left of 
the Fai (i.e. booty gained without fighting) which Allah had given him. Abu Bakr said to her, "Allah's 
Apostle said, 'Our property will not be inherited, whatever we (i.e. prophets) leave is Sadaqa (to be 
used for charity)." Fatima, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got angry and stopped speaking to Abu 
Bakr, and continued assuming that attitude till she died. Fatima remained alive for six months after the 
death of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
She used to ask Abu Bakr for her share from the property of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which he left at Khaibar, 
and Fadak, and his property at Medina (devoted for charity). Abu Bakr refused to give her that 
property and said, "I will not leave anything Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do, because I am afraid that if I 
left something from the Prophet's tradition, then I would go astray." (Later on) `Umar gave the 
Prophet's property (of Sadaqa) at Medina to `Ali and `Abbas, but he withheld the properties of 
Khaibar and Fadak in his custody and said, "These two properties are the Sadaqa which Allah's 
Apostle used to use for his expenditures and urgent needs. Now their management is to be entrusted to 
the ruler." (Az-Zuhri said, "They have been managed in this way till today.")
Bukhari:3093 Narrated `Aisha:(mother of the believers) After the death of Allah 's Apostle Fatima the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
asked Abu Bakr As-Siddiq to give her, her share of inheritance from what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had left of 
the Fai (i.e. booty gained without fighting) which Allah had given him. Abu Bakr said to her, "Allah's 
Apostle said, 'Our property will not be inherited, whatever we (i.e. prophets) leave is Sadaqa (to be 
used for charity)." Fatima, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got angry and stopped speaking to Abu 
Bakr, and continued assuming that attitude till she died. Fatima remained alive for six months after the 
death of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). 
She used to ask Abu Bakr for her share from the property of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which he left at Khaibar, 
and Fadak, and his property at Medina (devoted for charity). Abu Bakr refused to give her that 
property and said, "I will not leave anything Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do, because I am afraid that if I 
left something from the Prophet's tradition, then I would go astray." (Later on) `Umar gave the 
Prophet's property (of Sadaqa) at Medina to `Ali and `Abbas, but he withheld the properties of 
Khaibar and Fadak in his custody and said, "These two properties are the Sadaqa which Allah's 
Apostle used to use for his expenditures and urgent needs. Now their management is to be entrusted to 
the ruler." (Az-Zuhri said, "They have been managed in this way till today.")
Bukhari:3094 Narrated Malik bin Aus:While I was at home, the sun rose high and it got hot. Suddenly the messenger of `Umar bin Al- 
Khattab came to me and said, "The chief of the believers has sent for you." So, I went along with him 
till I entered the place where `Umar was sitting on a bedstead made of date-palm leaves and covered 
with no mattress, and he was leaning over a leather pillow. I greeted him and sat down. He said, "O 
Mali! Some persons of your people who have families came to me and I have ordered that a gift 
should be given to them, so take it and distribute it among them." I said, "O chief of the believers! I 
wish that you order someone else to do it." He said, "O man! Take it." While I was sitting there with 
him, his doorman Yarfa' came saying, "`Uthman, `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf, Az-Zubair and Sa`d bin 
Abi Waqqas are asking your permission (to see you); may I admit them?" 
`Umar said, "Yes", So they were admitted and they came in, greeted him, and sat down. After a while 
Yarfa' came again and said, "May I admit `Ali and `Abbas?" `Umar said, "yes." So, they were 
admitted and they came in and greeted (him) and sat down. Then `Abbas said, "O chief of the 
believers! Judge between me and this (i.e. `Ali)." They had a dispute regarding the property of Bani 
An-Nadir which Allah had given to His Apostle as Fai. The group (i.e. `Uthman and his companions) 
said, "O chief of the believers! Judge between them and relieve both of them front each other." `Umar 
said, "Be patient! I beseech you by Allah by Whose Permission the Heaven and the Earth exist, do 
you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Our (i.e. prophets') property will not be inherited, and whatever 
we leave, is Sadaqa (to be used for charity),' and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) meant himself (by saying "we'')?" 
The group said, "He said so." `Umar then turned to `Ali and `Abbas and said, "I beseech you by Allah, 
do you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said so?" They replied, " He said so." `Umar then said, "So, I will 
talk to you about this matter. Allah bestowed on His Apostle with a special favor of something of this 
Fai (booty) which he gave to nobody else." `Umar then recited the Holy Verses: "What Allah 
bestowed as (Fai) Booty on his Apostle (Muhammad) from them --- for this you made no expedition 
with either cavalry or camelry: But Allah gives power to His Apostles over whomever He will 'And 
Allah is able to do all things." 9:6) 
`Umar added "So this property was especially given to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), but, by Allah, neither did he 
take possession of it and leave your, nor did he favor himself with it to your exclusion, but he gave it 
to all of you and distributed it amongst you till this property remained out of it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used 
to spend the yearly expenses of his family out of this property and used to keep the rest of its revenue 
to be spent on Allah 's Cause. Allah 's Apostle kept on doing this during all his lifetime. I ask you by 
Allah do you know this?" They replies in the affirmative. `Umar then said to `Ali and `Abbas. "I ask 
you by Allah, do you know this?" `Umar added, "When Allah had taken His Prophet unto Him, 'Abu 
Bakr said, 'I am the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so, Abu Bakr took over that property and managed it 
in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do, and Allah knows that he was true, pious and rightlyguided, 
and he was a follower of what was right. 
Then Allah took Abu Bakr unto Him and I became Abu Bakr's successor, and I kept that property in 
my possession for the first two years of my Caliphate, managing it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
used to do and as Abu Bakr used to do, and Allah knows that I have been true, pious, rightly guided, 
and a follower of what is right. Now you both (i.e. 'Ah and `Abbas) came to talk to me, bearing the 
same claim and presenting the same case; you, `Abbas, came to me asking for your share from your 
nephew's property, and this man, i.e. `Ali, came to me asking for his wife's share from her father's 
property. I told you both that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Our (prophets') properties are not to be inherited, 
but what we leave is Sadaqa (to be used for charity).' 
When I thought it right that I should hand over this property to you, I said to you, 'I am ready to hand 
over this property to you if you wish, on the condition that you would take Allah's Pledge and 
Convention that you would manage it in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to, and as Abu Bakr 
used to do, and as I have done since I was in charge of it.' So, both of you said (to me), 'Hand it over 
to us,' and on that condition I handed it over to you. So, I ask you by Allah, did I hand it over to them 
on this condition?" The group aid, "Yes." Then `Umar faced `Ali and `Abbas saying, "I ask you by 
Allah, did I hand it over to you on this condition?" They said, "Yes. " He said, " Do you want now to 
give a different decision? By Allah, by Whose Leave both the Heaven and the Earth exist, I will never 
give any decision other than that (I have already given). And if you are unable to manage it, then 
return it to me, and I will do the job on your behalf."
Bukhari:3095 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The delegates of the tribe of `Abdul-Qais came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are from the tribe of 
Rabi`a, and there is the infidels of the tribe of Mudar intervening between you and us, so we cannot 
come to you except in the Sacred Months. So please order us some instructions that we may apply it to 
ourselves and also invite our people whom we left behind us to observe as well." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I 
order you (to do) four (things) and forbid you (to do) four: I order you to believe in Allah, that is, to 
testify that None has the right to be worshipped but Allah (the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed with his hand); to offer 
prayers perfectly; to pay Zakat; to fast the month of Ramadan, and to pay the Khumus (i.e. one-fifth) 
of the war booty to Allah and I forbid you to use Ad-dubba', An-Naqir, Al-Hantam and Al-Muzaffat 
(i.e. utensils used for preparing alcoholic drinks)." (See Hadith No. 50, Vol. 1).
Bukhari:3096 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "My heirs should not take even a single Dinar (i.e. anything from my property), 
and whatever I leave, excluding the expenditure of my wives and my laborers, will be Sadaqa (i.e. be 
used for charity)."'
Bukhari:3097 Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, and there was nothing in my house that a living being could eat, except some 
barley Lying on a shelf. So, I ate of it for a long period and measured it, and (after a short period) it 
was consumed.
Bukhari:3098 Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave anything (after his death) except his arms, a white mule, and a (piece of) 
land which he had given as Sadaqa.
Bukhari:3099 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) When the sickness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got aggravated, he asked the 
permission of his wives that he should be treated in my house, and they permitted him.
Bukhari:3100 Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika:`Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) died in my house on the day of my turn while he was leaning on my chest 
closer to my neck, and Allah made my saliva mix with his Saliva." `Aisha added, "`AbdurRahman 
came with a Siwak and the Prophet (ﷺ) was too weak to use it so I took it, chewed it and then (gave it to 
him and he) cleaned his teeth with it."
Bukhari:3101 Narrated Safiya:(the wife of the Prophet) That she came to visit Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in I`tikaf (i.e. seclusion 
in the Mosque during the last ten days of Ramadan). When she got up to return, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up 
with her and accompanied her, and when he reached near the gate of the Mosque close to the door (of 
the house) of Um Salama, the wife of the Prophet, two Ansari men passed by them and greeted Allah's 
Apostle and then went away. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed them saying, "Don't hurry! (She is my wife)," 
They said, "Glorified be Allah! O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (You are far away from any suspicion)," and his 
saying was hard on them. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Satan circulates in the mind of a person as blood does 
(in his body). I was afraid that Satan might put some (evil) thoughts in your minds."
Bukhari:3102 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Once I went upstairs in Hafsa's house and saw the Prophet (ﷺ) answering the call of nature with his back 
towards the Qibla and facing Sham.
Bukhari:3103 Narrated Aisha:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayer while the sun was still shining in her Hujra (i.e. her 
dwelling place).
Bukhari:3104 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and delivered a sermon, and pointing to `Aisha's house (i.e. eastwards), he said 
thrice, "Affliction (will appear from) here," and, "from where the side of the Satan's head comes out 
(i.e. from the East).
Bukhari:3105 Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman:`Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) told her that once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was with her and she heard 
somebody asking permission to enter Hafsa's house. She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This man is asking 
permission to enter your house." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "I think he is so-and-so (meaning the foster 
uncle of Hafsa). What is rendered illegal because of blood relations, is also rendered illegal because of 
the corresponding foster-relations."
Bukhari:3106 Narrated Anas:That when Abu Bakr became the Caliph, he sent him to Bahrain and wrote this letter for him, and 
stamped it with the Ring of the Prophet. Three lines were engraved on the Ring, (the word) 
'Muhammad' was in a line, 'Apostle' was in another line, and 'Allah' in a third.
Bukhari:3107 Narrated `Isa bin Tahman:Anas brought out to us two worn out leather shoes without hair and with pieces of leather straps. Later 
on Thabit Al-Banani told me that Anas said that they were the shoes of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3108 Narrated Abu Burda:`Aisha brought out to us a patched wool Len garment, and she said, "(It chanced that) the soul of 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was taken away while he was wearing this." Abu-Burda added, "Aisha brought out to 
us a thick waist sheet like the ones made by the Yemenites, and also a garment of the type called Al- 
Mulabbada."
Bukhari:3109 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the cup of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got broken, he fixed it with a silver wire at the crack. (The subnarrator, 
`Asim said, "I saw the cup and drank (water) in it.")
Bukhari:3110 Narrated `Ali bin Al-Husain:That when they reached Medina after returning from Yazid bin Mu'awaiya after the martyrdom of 
Husain bin `Ali (may Allah bestow His Mercy upon him), Al-Miswar bin Makhrama met him and said 
to him, "Do you have any need you may order me to satisfy?" `Ali said, "No." Al-Miswar said, Will 
you give me the sword of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for I am afraid that people may take it from you by force? 
By Allah, if you give it to me, they will never be able to take it till I die." When `Ali bin Abu Talib 
demanded the hand of the daughter of Abi Jahal to be his wife besides Fatima, I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
on his pulpit delivering a sermon in this connection before the people, and I had then attained my age 
of puberty. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fatima is from me, and I am afraid she will be subjected to trials in 
her religion (because of jealousy)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then mentioned one of his son-in-law who was from 
the tribe of 'Abu Shams, and he praised him as a good son-in-law, saying, "Whatever he said was the 
truth, and he promised me and fulfilled his promise. I do not make a legal thing illegal, nor do I make 
an illegal thing legal, but by Allah, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the daughter of the enemy of 
Allah, (i.e. Abu Jahl) can never get together (as the wives of one man) (See Hadith No. 76, Vo. 5).
Bukhari:3111 Narrated Ibn Al-Hanafiya:If `Ali had spoken anything bad about `Uthman then he would have mentioned the day when some 
persons came to him and complained about the Zakat officials of `Uthman. `Ali then said to me, "Go 
to `Uthman and say to him, 'This document contains the regulations of spending the Sadaqa of Allah's 
Apostle so order your Zakat officials to act accordingly." I took the document to `Uthman. `Uthman 
said, "Take it away, for we are not in need of it." I returned to `Ali with it and informed him of that. 
He said, "Put it whence you took it."
Bukhari:3112 Muhammad bin Suqa:I heard Mundhir at-Tuzi reporting Ibn Hanafiya who said,"My father 
sent me saying, 'Take this letter to `Uthman for it contains the orders of the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning the 
Sadaqa.' "
Bukhari:3113 Narrated `Ali:Fatima complained of what she suffered from the hand mill and from grinding, when she got the news 
that some slave girls of the booty had been brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). She went to him to ask for a 
maid-servant, but she could not find him, and told `Aisha of her need. When the Prophet (ﷺ) came, Aisha 
informed him of that. The Prophet (ﷺ) came to our house when we had gone to our beds. (On seeing the 
Prophet) we were going to get up, but he said, 'Keep at your places,' I felt the coolness of the Prophet's 
feet on my chest. Then he said, "Shall I tell you a thing which is better than what you asked me for? 
When you go to your beds, say: 'Allahu Akbar (i.e. Allah is Greater)' for 34 times, and 'Al hamdu Li llah 
(i.e. all the praises are for Allah)' for 33 times, and Subhan Allah (i.e. Glorified be Allah) for 33 
times. This is better for you than what you have requested."
Bukhari:3114 Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah (ra):A boy was born to one of our men, the Ansar, and he wanted to name him Muhammad. Then Ansari man said, "I took the boy to the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name your child by my name, but do not name (them) by my Kunya, for I have been made Qasim (i.e., a distributor) to distribute (the booty etc.) amongst you." The narrator, Husain said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent as a Qasim (i.e., distributor) to distribute (things) amongst you." [The Sub narrator Salim said that he heard Jabir saying that the man wanted to name the boy Al-Qasim, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Call (your sons) by my name, but do not name (them) by my Kunya."]
Bukhari:3115 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:A man amongst us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. On that the Ansar said, (to the man), "We 
will never call you Abu-al-Qasim and will never please you with this blessed title." So, he went to the 
Prophet and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have begotten a boy whom I named Al-Qasim and the Ansar 
said, 'We will never call you Abu-al-Qasim, nor will we please you with this title.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"The Ansar have done well. Name by my name, but do not name by my Kunya, for I am Qasim."
Bukhari:3116 Narrated Muawiya:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah wants to do good for somebody, he makes him comprehend the 
Religion (i.e. Islam), and Allah is the Giver and I am Al-Qasim (i.e. the distributor), and this (Muslim) nation will remain victorious over their opponents, till Allah's Order comes and they will still be victorious."
Bukhari:3117 Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Neither do I give you (anything) nor withhold (anything) 
from you, but I am just a distributor (i.e. Qasim), and I give as I am ordered."
Bukhari:3118 Narrated Khaula Al-Ansariya:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Some people spend Allah's Wealth (i.e. Muslim's wealth) in an unjust 
manner; such people will be put in the (Hell) Fire on the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:3119 Narrated `Urwa-al-Bariqi:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Horses are always the source of good, namely, rewards (in the Hereafter) and 
booty, till the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:3120 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau after him; and when Caesar 
is ruined, there will be no Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hands my life is, you will spend their 
treasures in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:3121 Narrated Jabir bin Samura:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau after him; and when Caesar 
is ruined, their will be no Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hands my life is, you will spend their 
treasures in Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:3122 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Booty has been made legal for me."
Bukhari:3123 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah guarantees him who strives in His Cause and whose motivation for going 
out is nothing but Jihad in His Cause and belief in His Word, that He will admit him into Paradise (if 
martyred) or bring him back to his dwelling place, whence he has come out, with what he gains of 
reward and booty."
Bukhari:3124 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A prophet amongst the prophets carried out a holy military expedition, so he said 
to his followers, 'Anyone who has married a woman and wants to consummate the marriage, and has 
not done so yet, should not accompany me; nor should a man who has built a house but has not 
completed its roof; nor a man who has sheep or shecamels and is waiting for the birth of their young 
ones.' So, the prophet carried out the expedition and when he reached that town at the time or nearly at 
the time of the `Asr prayer, he said to the sun, 'O sun! You are under Allah's Order and I am under 
Allah's Order O Allah! Stop it (i.e. the sun) from setting.' It was stopped till Allah made him 
victorious. 
Then he collected the booty and the fire came to burn it, but it did not burn it. He said (to his men), 
'Some of you have stolen something from the booty. So one man from every tribe should give me a 
pledge of allegiance by shaking hands with me.' (They did so and) the hand of a man got stuck over 
the hand of their prophet. Then that prophet said (to the man), 'The theft has been committed by your 
people. So all the persons of your tribe should give me the pledge of allegiance by shaking hands with 
me.' The hands of two or three men got stuck over the hand of their prophet and he said, "You have 
committed the theft.' Then they brought a head of gold like the head of a cow and put it there, and the 
fire came and consumed the booty. The Prophet (ﷺ) added: Then Allah saw our weakness and disability, 
so he made booty legal for us."
Bukhari:3125 Narrated Aslam:`Umar said, "Were it not for those Muslims who have not come to existence yet, I would have 
distributed (the land of) every town I conquer among the fighters as the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed the land of 
Khaibar."
Bukhari:3126 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:A bedouin asked the Prophet, "A man may fight for the sake of booty, and another may fight so that 
he may be mentioned by the people, and a third may fight to show his position (i.e. bravery); which of 
these regarded as fighting in Allah's Cause?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who fights so that Allah's Word 
(i.e. Islam) should be superior, fights for Allah's Cause."
Bukhari:3127 Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Mulaika:Some silken cloaks with golden buttons were presented to the Prophet. He distributed them amongst 
his companions and kept one for Makhrama, bin Naufal. Later on Makhrama came along with his son 
Al-Miswar bin Makhrama, and stood up at the gate and said (to his son). "Call him (i.e. the Prophet) 
to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) heard his voice, took a silken cloak and brought it to him, placing those golden 
buttons in front of him saying, "O Abu-al-Miswar! I have kept this aside for you! O Abu-al Miswar! I 
have kept this aside for you!" Makhrama was a bad-tempered man.
Bukhari:3128 Narrated Anas bin Malik:People used to give some of their datepalms to the Prophet (as a gift), till he conquered Bani Quraiza 
and Bani An-Nadir, whereupon he started returning their favors.
Bukhari:3129 Narrated `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair:When Az-Zubair got up during the battle of Al-Jamal, he called me and I stood up beside him, and he 
said to me, "O my son! Today one will be killed either as an oppressor or as an oppressed one. I see 
that I will be killed as an oppressed one. My biggest worry is my debts. Do you think, if we pay the 
debts, there will be something left for us from our money?" Az-Zubair added, "O my son! Sell our 
property and pay my debts." Az-Zubair then willed one-third of his property and willed one-third of 
that portion to his sons; namely, `Abdullah's sons. He said, "One-third of the one third. If any property 
is left after the payment of the debts, one-third (of the one-third of what is left) is to be given to your 
sons." (Hisham, a sub-narrator added, "Some of the sons of `Abdullah were equal in age to the sons of 
Az-Zubair e.g. Khubaib and `Abbas. `Abdullah had nine sons and nine daughters at that time." (The 
narrator `Abdullah added:) My father (Az-Zubair) went on drawing my attention to his debts saying, 
"If you should fail to pay part of the debts, appeal to my Master to help you." By Allah! I could not 
understand what he meant till I asked, "O father! Who is your Master?" He replied, "Allah (is my 
Master)." 
By Allah, whenever I had any difficulty regarding his debts, I would say, "Master of Az-Zubair! Pay 
his debts on his behalf ." and Allah would (help me to) pay it. Az-Zubair was martyred leaving no 
Dinar or Dirham but two pieces of land, one of which was (called) Al-Ghaba, and eleven houses in 
Medina, two in Basra, one in Kufa and one in Egypt. In fact, the source of the debt which he owed 
was, that if somebody brought some money to deposit with him. Az-Zubair would say, "No, (i won't 
keep it as a trust), but I take it as a debt, for I am afraid it might be lost." Az-Zubair was never 
appointed governor or collector of the tax of Kharaj or any other similar thing, but he collected his 
wealth (from the war booty he gained) during the holy battles he took part in, in the company of the 
Prophet, Abu Bakr, `Umar, and `Uthman. (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair added:) When I counted his debt, 
it turned to be two million and two hundred thousand. (The sub-narrator added:) Hakim bin Hizam 
met `Abdullah bin Zubair and asked, "O my nephew! How much is the debt of my brother?" 
`Abdullah kept it as a secret and said, "One hundred thousand," Hakim said, "By Allah! I don't think 
your property will cover it." On that `Abdullah said to him, "What if it is two million and two hundred 
thousand?" 
Hakim said, "I don't think you can pay it; so if you are unable to pay all of it, I will help you." Az- 
Zubair had already bought Al-Ghaba for one hundred and seventy thousand. `Abdullah sold it for one 
million and six hundred thousand. Then he called the people saying, "Any person who has any money 
claim on Az-Zubair should come to us in Al-Ghaba." There came to him `Abdullah bin Ja`far whom 
Az-Zubair owed four hundred thousand. He said to `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, "If you wish I will 
forgive you the debt." `Abdullah (bin Az-Zubair) said, "No." Then Ibn Ja`far said, "If you wish you 
can defer the payment if you should defer the payment of any debt." Ibn Az-Zubair said, "No." 
`Abdullah bin Ja`far said, "Give me a piece of the land." `Abdullah bin AzZubair said (to him), 
"Yours is the land extending from this place to this place." So, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair sold some of 
the property (including the houses) and paid his debt perfectly, retaining four and a half shares from 
the land (i.e. Al-Ghaba). He then went to Mu'awlya while `Amr bin `Uthman, Al-Mundhir bin Az- 
Zubair and Ibn Zam`a were sitting with him. Mu'awiya asked, "At what price have you appraised Al- 
Ghaba?" He said, "One hundred thousand for each share," Muawiya asked, "How many shares have 
been left?" `Abdullah replied, "Four and a half shares." 
Al-Mundhir bin Az-Zubair said, "I would like to buy one share for one hundred thousand." `Amr bin 
`Uthman said, "I would like to buy one share for one hundred thousand." Ibn Zam`a said, "I would 
like to buy one share for one hundred thousand." Muawiya said, "How much is left now?" `Abdullah 
replied, "One share and a half." Muawiya said, "I would like to buy it for one hundred and fifty 
thousand." `Abdullah also sold his part to Muawiya six hundred thousand. When Ibn AzZubair had 
paid all the debts. Az-Zubair's sons said to him, "Distribute our inheritance among us." He said, "No, 
by Allah, I will not distribute it among you till I announce in four successive Hajj seasons, 'Would 
those who have money claims on Az-Zubair come so that we may pay them their debt." So, he started 
to announce that in public in every Hajj season, and when four years had elapsed, he distributed the 
inheritance among the inheritors. Az-Zubair had four wives, and after the one-third of his property 
was excluded (according to the will), each of his wives received one million and two hundred 
thousand. So the total amount of his property was fifty million and two hundred thousand.
Bukhari:3130 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Uthman did not join the Badr battle because he was married to one of the daughters of Allah's 
Apostle and she was ill. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him. "You will get a reward and a share (from the war 
booty) similar to the reward and the share of one who has taken part in the Badr battle."
Bukhari:3131 Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakim and Miswar bin Makhrama:When the Hawazin delegation came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after they had embraced Islam and requested 
him to return their properties and war prisoners to them, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "To me the best talk is 
the truest, so you may choose either of two things; the war prisoners or the wealth, for I have delayed 
their distribution." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had waited for them for over ten days when he returned from Ta'if. 
So, when those people came to know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was not going to return to them except one 
of the two things the said, "We choose our war Prisoners 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up amongst the 
Muslims, and after glorifying Allah as He deserved, he said, "Now then, these brothers of yours have 
come to us with repentance, and I see it logical that I should return their captives to them, so whoever 
of you likes to do that as a favor then he can do it, and whoever amongst you likes to stick to his 
share, let him give up his prisoners and we will compensate him from the very first Fai' (i.e. war booty 
received without fight) which Allah will give us." On that, all the people said. 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s We 
have agreed willingly to do so (return the captives)" Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them "I do not know 
who amongst you has agreed to this and who has not. You should return and let your leaders inform 
me of your agreement." The people returned and their leaders spoke to them, and then came to Allah's 
Apostle and said, "All the people have agreed willingly to do so and have given the permission to 
return the war prisoners (without Compensation)" (Az-Zuhri, the sub-narrator states) This is what has 
been related to us about the captives of Hawazin.
Bukhari:3132 Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakim and Miswar bin Makhrama:When the Hawazin delegation came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after they had embraced Islam and requested 
him to return their properties and war prisoners to them, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "To me the best talk is 
the truest, so you may choose either of two things; the war prisoners or the wealth, for I have delayed 
their distribution." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had waited for them for over ten days when he returned from Ta'if. 
So, when those people came to know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was not going to return to them except one 
of the two things the said, "We choose our war Prisoners 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up amongst the 
Muslims, and after glorifying Allah as He deserved, he said, "Now then, these brothers of yours have 
come to us with repentance, and I see it logical that I should return their captives to them, so whoever 
of you likes to do that as a favor then he can do it, and whoever amongst you likes to stick to his 
share, let him give up his prisoners and we will compensate him from the very first Fai' (i.e. war booty 
received without fight) which Allah will give us." On that, all the people said. 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s We 
have agreed willingly to do so (return the captives)" Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them "I do not know 
who amongst you has agreed to this and who has not. You should return and let your leaders inform 
me of your agreement." The people returned and their leaders spoke to them, and then came to Allah's 
Apostle and said, "All the people have agreed willingly to do so and have given the permission to 
return the war prisoners (without Compensation)" (Az-Zuhri, the sub-narrator states) This is what has 
been related to us about the captives of Hawazin.
Bukhari:3133 Narrated Zahdam:Once we were in the house of Abu Musa who presented a meal containing cooked chicken. A man 
from the tribe of Bani Taim Allah with red complexion as if he were from the Byzantine war 
prisoners, was present. Abu Musa invited him to share the meal but he (apologised) saying. "I saw 
chickens eating dirty things and so I have had a strong aversion to eating them, and have taken an oath 
that I will not eat chickens." Abu Musa said, "Come along, I will tell you about this matter (i.e. how to 
cancel one's oath). I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the company of a group of Al-Ashariyin, asked him to 
provide us with means of conveyance. He said, 'By Allah, I will not provide you with any means of 
conveyance and I have nothing to make you ride on.' Then some camels as booty were brought to 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he asked for us saying. 'Where are the group of Al-Ash`ariyun?' Then he ordered 
that we should be given five camels with white humps. When we set out we said, 'What have we 
done? We will never be blessed (with what we have been given).' So, we returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and 
said, 'We asked you to provide us with means of conveyance, but you took an oath that you would not 
provide us with any means of conveyance. Did you forget (your oath when you gave us the camels)? 
He replied. 'I have not provided you with means of conveyance, but Allah has provided you with it, 
and by Allah, Allah willing, if ever I take an oath to do something, and later on I find that it is more 
beneficial to do something different, I will do the thing which is better, and give expiation for my 
oath."
Bukhari:3134 Narrated Nafi` from Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a Sariya towards Najd, and `Abdullah bin `Umar was in the Sariya. They gained a 
great number of camels as war booty. The share of each one of them was twelve or eleven camels, and 
they were given an extra camel each.
Bukhari:3135 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to give extra share to some of the members of the Sariya he used to send, in 
addition to the shares they shared with the army in general.
Bukhari:3136 Narrated Abu Musa:We got the news of the migration of the Prophet (ﷺ) while we were in Yemen, so we set out migrating to 
him. We were, I and my two brothers, I being the youngest, and one of my brothers was Abu Burda 
and the other was Abu Ruhm. We were over fifty (or fifty-three or fifty two) men from our people. 
We got on board a ship which took us to An-Najashi in Ethiopia, and there we found Ja`far bin Abu 
Talib and his companions with An-Najaishi. Ja`far said (to us), "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has sent us here and 
ordered us to stay here, so you too, stay with us." We stayed with him till we all left (Ethiopia) and 
met the Prophet (ﷺ) at the time when he had conquered Khaibar. He gave us a share from its booty (or 
gave us from its booty). He gave only to those who had taken part in the Ghazwa with him. but he did 
not give any share to any person who had not participated in Khaibar's conquest except the people of 
our ship, besides Ja`far and his companions, whom he gave a share as he did them (i.e. the people of 
the ship).
Bukhari:3137 Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), "If the property of Bahrain had come to us, I would have given you so 
much and so much." But the Bahrain property did not come till the Prophet (ﷺ) had died. When the 
Bahrain property came. Abu Bakr ordered somebody to announce, "Any person who has money claim 
on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) or whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had promised something, should come to us." So, I went 
to him and said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had promised to give me so much an so much." Abu Bakr scooped 
up money with both hands thrice for me." (The sub-narrator Sufyan illustrated this action by scooping 
up with both hands and said, "Ibn Munkadir, another sub-narrator, used to illustrate it in this way.") 
Narrated Jabir: Once I went to Abu Bakr and asked for the money but he did not give me, and I went 
to him again, but he did not give me, so I went to him for the third time and said, "I asked you, but 
you did not give me; then I asked you (for the second time) and you did not give me; then I asked you 
(for the third time) but you did not give me. You should either give me or allow yourself to be 
considered a miser regarding my case." Abu Bakr said, "You tell me that I am a miser with regard to 
you. But really, whenever I rejected your request, I had the inclination to give you." 
(In another narration Jabir added:) So, Abu Bakr scooped up money with both hands for me and asked 
me to count it. I found out that It was five hundred. Abu Bakr told me to take twice that amount.
Bukhari:3138 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was distributing the booty at Al-Ja'rana, somebody said to him "Be just (in your 
distribution)." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Verily I would be miserable if I did not act justly."
Bukhari:3139 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:The Prophet (ﷺ) talked about war prisoners of Badr saying, "Had Al-Mut`im bin Adi been alive and 
interceded with me for these mean people, I would have freed them for his sake."
Bukhari:3140 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:I and `Uthman bin `Affan went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have given to 
Bani Al-Muttalib and left us although they and we are of the same kinship to you." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "Bani Muttalib and Bani Hashim are one and the same." The Prophet (ﷺ) did not give a share to Bani 
`Abd Shams and Bani Naufai. (Ibn 'Is-haq said, "Abd Shams and Hashim and Al-Muttalib were 
maternal brothers and their mother was 'Atika bint Murra and Naufal was their paternal brother.)
Bukhari:3141 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf:While I was standing in the row on the day (of the battle) of Badr, I looked to my right and my left 
and saw two young Ansari boys, and I wished I had been stronger than they. One of them called my 
attention saying, "O Uncle! Do you know Abu Jahl?" I said, "Yes, What do you want from him, O my 
nephew?" He said, "I have been informed that he abuses Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). By Him in Whose Hands my 
life is, if I should see him, then my body will not leave his body till either of us meet his fate." I was 
astonished at that talk. Then the other boy called my attention saying the same as the other had said. 
After a while I saw Abu Jahl walking amongst the people. I said (to the boys), "Look! This is the man 
you asked me about." So, both of them attacked him with their swords and struck him to death and 
returned to Allah'S Apostle to inform him of that. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Which of you has killed 
him?" Each of them said, "I Have killed him." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Have you cleaned your 
swords?" They said, "No. " He then looked at their swords and said, "No doubt, you both have killed 
him and the spoils of the deceased will be given to Mu`adh bin `Amr bin Al-Jamuh." The two boys 
were Mu`adh bin 'Afra and Mu`adh bin `Amr bin Al-Jamuh.
Bukhari:3142 Narrated Abu Qatada:We set out in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of Hunain. When we faced the 
enemy, the Muslims retreated and I saw a pagan throwing himself over a Muslim. I turned around and 
came upon him from behind and hit him on the shoulder with the sword He (i.e. the pagan) came 
towards me and seized me so violently that I felt as if it were death itself, but death overtook him and 
he released me. I followed `Umar bin Al Khattab and asked (him), "What is wrong with the people 
(fleeing)?" He replied, "This is the Will of Allah," After the people returned, the Prophet (ﷺ) sat and said, 
"Anyone who has killed an enemy and has a proof of that, will posses his spoils." I got up and said, 
"Who will be a witness for me?" and then sat down. The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, "Anyone who has killed 
an enemy and has proof of that, will possess his spoils." I (again) got up and said, "Who will be a 
witness for me?" and sat down. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said the same for the third time. I again got up, and 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Qatada! What is your story?" Then I narrated the whole story to him. A 
man (got up and) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He is speaking the truth, and the spoils of the killed man 
are with me. So please compensate him on my behalf." On that Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said, "No, by 
Allah, he (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ) will not agree to give you the spoils gained by one of Allah's Lions 
who fights on the behalf of Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abu Bakr has spoken the 
truth." So, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the spoils to me. I sold that armor (i.e. the spoils) and with its price I 
bought a garden at Bani Salima, and this was my first property which I gained after my conversion to 
Islam.
Bukhari:3143 Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair:Hakim bin Hizam said, "I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for something, and he gave me. I asked him again, 
and he gave me, and said to me. 'O Hakim! This wealth is like green sweet (i.e. fruit), and if one takes 
it without greed, then one is blessed in it, and if one takes it with greediness, then one is not blessed in 
it, and will be like the one who eats without satisfaction. And an upper (i.e. giving) hand is better than 
a lower (i.e. taking) hand,' I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Him Who has sent you with the Truth. I will 
not ask anyone for anything after you till I leave this world." So, when Abu Bakr during his Caliphate, 
called Hakim to give him (some money), Hakim refused to accept anything from him. Once `Umar 
called him (during his Caliphate) in order to give him something, but Hakim refused to accept it, 
whereupon `Umar said, "O Muslims! I give him (i.e. Hakim) his right which Allah has assigned to 
him) from this Fai '(booty), but he refuses to take it." So Hakim never took anything from anybody 
after the Prophet (ﷺ) till he died.
Bukhari:3144 Narrated Nafi`:`Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I vowed to observe I`tikaf for one day during the Prelslamic 
period." The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to fulfill his vow. `Umar gained two lady captives from the 
war prisoners of Hunain and he left them in some of the houses at Mecca. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) freed 
the captives of Hunain without ransom, they came out walking in the streets. `Umar said (to his son), 
"O `Abdullah! See what is the matter." `Abdullah replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has freed the captives 
without ransom." He said (to him), "Go and set free those two slave girls." (Nafi` added:) Allah's 
Apostle did not perform the `Umra from Al-Jarana, and if he had performed the `Umra, it would not 
have been hidden from `Abdullah.
Bukhari:3145 Narrated `Amr bin Taghlib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave (gifts) to some people to the exclusion of some others. The latter seemed to be 
displeased by that. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I give to some people, lest they should deviate from True Faith 
or lose patience, while I refer other people to the goodness and contentment which Allah has put in 
their hearts, and `Amr bin Taghlib is amongst them." `Amr bin Taghlib said, "The statement of Allah's 
Apostle is dearer to me than red camels." 
Narrated Al-Hasan: `Amr bin Taghlib told us that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got some property or some war 
prisoners and he distributed them in the above way (i.e. giving to some people to the exclusion of 
others) .
Bukhari:3146 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I give to Quraish people in order to let them adhere to Islam, for they are near to 
their life of Ignorance (i.e. they have newly embraced Islam and it is still not strong in their hearts."
Bukhari:3147 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When Allah favored His Apostle with the properties of Hawazin tribe as Fai (booty), he started giving 
to some Quarries men even up to one-hundred camels each, whereupon some Ansari men said about 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "May Allah forgive His Apostle! He is giving to (men of) Quraish and leaves us, in 
spite of the fact that our swords are still dropping blood (of the infidels)" When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was 
informed of what they had said, he called the Ansar and gathered them in a leather tent and did not 
call anybody else along, with them. When they gathered, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to them and said, 
"What is the statement which, I have been informed, and that which you have said?" The learned ones 
among them replied," O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The wise ones amongst us did not say anything, but the 
youngsters amongst us said, 'May Allah forgive His Apostle; he gives the Quarish and leaves the 
Ansar, in spite of the fact that our swords are still dribbling (wet) with the blood of the infidels.' " 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, I give to such people as are still close to the period of Infidelity (i.e. they have 
recently embraced Islam and Faith is still weak in their hearts). Won't you be pleased to see people go 
with fortune, while you return with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to your houses? By Allah, what you will return 
with, is better than what they are returning with." The Ansar replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), we are 
satisfied' Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to them." You will find after me, others being preferred to you. Then 
be patient till you meet Allah and meet His Apostle at Al-Kauthar (i.e. a fount in Paradise)." (Anas 
added:) But we did not remain patient.
Bukhari:3148 Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:That while he was with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was accompanied by the people on their way back from 
Hunain, the bedouins started begging things of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so much so that they forced him to go 
under a Samura tree where his loose outer garment was snatched away. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood 
up and said to them, "Return my garment to me. If I had as many camels as these trees, I would have 
distributed them amongst you; and you will not find me a miser or a liar or a coward."
Bukhari:3149 Narrated Anas bin Malik:While I was walking with the Prophet (ﷺ) who was wearing a Najrani outer garment with a thick hem, a 
bedouin came upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and pulled his garment so violently that I could recognize the impress 
of the hem of the garment on his shoulder, caused by the violence of his pull. Then the bedouin said, 
"Order for me something from Allah's Fortune which you have." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned to him and 
smiled, and ordered that a gift be given to him.
Bukhari:3150 Narrated `Abdullah:On the day (of the battle) of Hunain, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) favored some people in the distribution of the 
booty (to the exclusion of others); he gave Al-Aqra' bin H`Abis one-hundred camels and he gave 
'Uyaina the same amount, and also gave to some of the eminent Arabs, giving them preference in this 
regard. Then a person came and said, "By Allah, in this distribution justice has not been observed, nor 
has Allah's Pleasure been aimed at." I said (to him), "By Allah, I will inform the Prophet (of what you 
have said), "I went and informed him, and he said, "If Allah and His Apostle did not act justly, who 
else would act justly. May Allah be merciful to Moses, for he was harmed with more than this, yet he 
kept patient."
Bukhari:3151 Narrated Asma bint Abu Bakr:I used to carry the date stones on my head from the land of Az-Zubair which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had 
given to him, and it was at a distance of 2/3 of a Farsakh from my house. 
Narrated Hisham's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) gave Az-Zubair a piece of land from the property of Bani An- 
Nadir (gained as war booty).
Bukhari:3152 Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab expelled all the Jews and Christians from the land of Hijaz. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
after conquering Khaibar, thought of expelling the Jews from the land which, after he conquered it 
belonged to Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the Muslims. But the Jews requested Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to leave 
them there on the condition that they would do the labor and get half of the fruits (the land would 
yield). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We shall keep you on these terms as long as we wish." Thus they stayed 
till the time of `Umar's Caliphate when he expelled them to Taima and Ariha.
Bukhari:3153 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:While we were besieging the fort of Khaibar, a person threw a leather container containing fat, and I 
ran to take it, but when I turned I saw the Prophet (standing behind), so I felt embarrassed in front of 
him.
Bukhari:3154 Narrated Ibn `Umar:In our holy battles, we used to get honey and grapes, as war booty which we would eat and would not 
store.
Bukhari:3155 Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:We were afflicted with hunger during the besiege of Khaibar, and when it was the day of (the battle 
of) Khaibar, we slaughtered the donkeys and when the pots got boiling (with their meat). Allah's 
Apostle made an announcement that all the pots should be upset and that nobody should eat anything 
of the meat of the donkeys. We thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited that because the Khumus had not 
been taken out of the booty (i.e. donkeys); other people said, "He prohibited eating them for ever." 
The sub-narrator added, "I asked Sa`id bin Jubair who said, 'He has made the eating of donkeys' meat 
illegal for ever.")
Bukhari:3156 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:I was sitting with Jabir bin Zaid and `Amr bin Aus, and Bjalla was narrating to them in 70 A.H. the 
year when Mus`ab bin Az-Zubair was the leader of the pilgrims of Basra. We were sitting at the steps 
of Zamzam well and Bajala said, "I was the clerk of Juz bin Muawiya, Al-Ahnaf's paternal uncle. A 
letter came from `Umar bin Al-Khattab one year before his death; and it was read:-- "Cancel every 
marriage contracted among the Magians between relatives of close kinship (marriages that are 
regarded illegal in Islam: a relative of this sort being called Dhu-Mahram.)" `Umar did not take the 
Jizya from the Magian infidels till `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf testified that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had taken 
the Jizya from the Magians of Hajar.
Bukhari:3157 Narrated `Amr bin Dinar:I was sitting with Jabir bin Zaid and `Amr bin Aus, and Bjalla was narrating to them in 70 A.H. the 
year when Mus`ab bin Az-Zubair was the leader of the pilgrims of Basra. We were sitting at the steps 
of Zamzam well and Bajala said, "I was the clerk of Juz bin Muawiya, Al-Ahnaf's paternal uncle. A 
letter came from `Umar bin Al-Khattab one year before his death; and it was read:-- "Cancel every 
marriage contracted among the Magians between relatives of close kinship (marriages that are 
regarded illegal in Islam: a relative of this sort being called Dhu-Mahram.)" `Umar did not take the 
Jizya from the Magian infidels till `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf testified that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had taken 
the Jizya from the Magians of Hajar.
Bukhari:3158 Narrated `Amr bin `Auf Al-Ansari:(who was an ally of Bam `Amr bin Lu'ai and one of those who had taken part in (the Ghazwa of) 
Badr): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarreh to Bahrain to collect the Jizya. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
had established peace with the people of Bahrain and appointed Al-`Ala' bin Al-Hadrami as their 
governor. When Abu 'Ubaida came from Bahrain with the money, the Ansar heard of Abu 'Ubaida's 
arrival which coincided with the time of the morning prayer with the Prophet. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
led them in the morning prayer and finished, the Ansar approached him, and he looked at them and 
smiled on seeing them and said, "I feel that you have heard that Abu. 'Ubaida has brought 
something?" They said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)' He said, "Rejoice and hope for what will please you! 
By Allah, I am not afraid of your poverty but I am afraid that you will lead a life of luxury as past 
nations did, whereupon you will compete with each other for it, as they competed for it, and it will 
destroy you as it destroyed them."
Bukhari:3159 Narrated Jubair bin Haiya:`Umar sent the Muslims to the great countries to fight the pagans. When Al-Hurmuzan embraced 
Islam, `Umar said to him. "I would like to consult you regarding these countries which I intend to 
invade." Al-Hurmuzan said, "Yes, the example of these countries and their inhabitants who are the 
enemies. of the Muslims, is like a bird with a head, two wings and two legs; If one of its wings got 
broken, it would get up over its two legs, with one wing and the head; and if the other wing got 
broken, it would get up with two legs and a head, but if its head got destroyed, then the two legs, two 
wings and the head would become useless. The head stands for Khosrau, and one wing stands for 
Caesar and the other wing stands for Faris. So, order the Muslims to go towards Khosrau." So, `Umar 
sent us (to Khosrau) appointing An-Nu`man bin Muqrin as our commander. When we reached the 
land of the enemy, the representative of Khosrau came out with forty-thousand warriors, and an 
interpreter got up saying, "Let one of you talk to me!" 
Al-Mughira replied, "Ask whatever you wish." The other asked, "Who are you?" Al-Mughira replied, 
"We are some people from the Arabs; we led a hard, miserable, disastrous life: we used to suck the 
hides and the date stones from hunger; we used to wear clothes made up of fur of camels and hair of 
goats, and to worship trees and stones. While we were in this state, the Lord of the Heavens and the 
Earths, Elevated is His Remembrance and Majestic is His Highness, sent to us from among ourselves 
a Prophet whose father and mother are known to us. Our Prophet, the Messenger of our Lord, has 
ordered us to fight you till you worship Allah Alone or give Jizya (i.e. tribute); and our Prophet has 
informed us that our Lord says:-- "Whoever amongst us is killed (i.e. martyred), shall go to Paradise 
to lead such a luxurious life as he has never seen, and whoever amongst us remain alive, shall become 
your master." (Al-Mughira, then blamed An-Nu`man for delaying the attack and) An-Nu' man said to 
Al-Mughira, "If you had participated in a similar battle, in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he would 
not have blamed you for waiting, nor would he have disgraced you. But I accompanied Allah's 
Apostle in many battles and it was his custom that if he did not fight early by daytime, he would wait 
till the wind had started blowing and the time for the prayer was due (i.e. after midday).
Bukhari:3160 Narrated Jubair bin Haiya:`Umar sent the Muslims to the great countries to fight the pagans. When Al-Hurmuzan embraced 
Islam, `Umar said to him. "I would like to consult you regarding these countries which I intend to 
invade." Al-Hurmuzan said, "Yes, the example of these countries and their inhabitants who are the 
enemies. of the Muslims, is like a bird with a head, two wings and two legs; If one of its wings got 
broken, it would get up over its two legs, with one wing and the head; and if the other wing got 
broken, it would get up with two legs and a head, but if its head got destroyed, then the two legs, two 
wings and the head would become useless. The head stands for Khosrau, and one wing stands for 
Caesar and the other wing stands for Faris. So, order the Muslims to go towards Khosrau." So, `Umar 
sent us (to Khosrau) appointing An-Nu`man bin Muqrin as our commander. When we reached the 
land of the enemy, the representative of Khosrau came out with forty-thousand warriors, and an 
interpreter got up saying, "Let one of you talk to me!" 
Al-Mughira replied, "Ask whatever you wish." The other asked, "Who are you?" Al-Mughira replied, 
"We are some people from the Arabs; we led a hard, miserable, disastrous life: we used to suck the 
hides and the date stones from hunger; we used to wear clothes made up of fur of camels and hair of 
goats, and to worship trees and stones. While we were in this state, the Lord of the Heavens and the 
Earths, Elevated is His Remembrance and Majestic is His Highness, sent to us from among ourselves 
a Prophet whose father and mother are known to us. Our Prophet, the Messenger of our Lord, has 
ordered us to fight you till you worship Allah Alone or give Jizya (i.e. tribute); and our Prophet has 
informed us that our Lord says:-- "Whoever amongst us is killed (i.e. martyred), shall go to Paradise 
to lead such a luxurious life as he has never seen, and whoever amongst us remain alive, shall become 
your master." (Al-Mughira, then blamed An-Nu`man for delaying the attack and) An-Nu' man said to 
Al-Mughira, "If you had participated in a similar battle, in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he would 
not have blamed you for waiting, nor would he have disgraced you. But I accompanied Allah's 
Apostle in many battles and it was his custom that if he did not fight early by daytime, he would wait 
till the wind had started blowing and the time for the prayer was due (i.e. after midday).
Bukhari:3161 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Saidi:We accompanied the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Ghazwa of Tabuk and the king of 'Aila presented a white mule 
and a cloak as a gift to the Prophet. And the Prophet (ﷺ) wrote to him a peace treaty allowing him to keep 
authority over his country.
Bukhari:3162 Narrated Juwairiya bin Qudama at-Tamimi:We said to `Umar bin Al-Khattab, Jo Chief of the believers! Advise us." He said, "I advise you to 
fulfill Allah's Convention (made with the Dhimmis) as it is the convention of your Prophet and the 
source of the livelihood of your dependents (i.e. the taxes from the Dhimmis.) "
Bukhari:3163 Narrated Yahya bin Sa`id:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) called the Ansar in order to grant them part of the land of Bahrain. On that they said, 
"No! By Allah, we will not accept it unless you grant a similar thing to our Quarries brothers as well." 
He said, "That will be their's if Allah wishes." But when the Ansar persisted in their request, he said, 
"After me you will see others given preference over you in this respect (in which case) you should be 
patient till you meet me at the Tank (of Al-Kauthar).
Bukhari:3164 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once said to me, "If the revenue of Bahrain came, I would give you this much and this 
much." When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had died, the revenue of Bahrain came, and Abu Bakr announced, " Let 
whoever was promised something by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) come to me." So, I went to Abu Bakr and said, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, 'If the revenue of Bahrain came, I would give you this much and this. 
much." On that Abu Bakr said to me, "Scoop (money) with both your hands." I scooped money with 
both my hands and Abu Bakr asked me to count it. I counted it and it was five-hundred (gold pieces). 
The total amount he gave me was one thousand and five hundred (gold pieces.) 
Narrated Anas: Money from Bahrain was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) . He said, "Spread it in the Mosque." 
It was the biggest amount that had ever been brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . In the meantime Al-`Abbas 
came to him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me, for I gave the ransom of myself and `Aqil." The 
Prophet said (to him), "Take." He scooped money with both hands and poured it in his garment and 
tried to lift it, but he could not and appealed to the Prophet, "Will you order someone to help me in 
lifting it?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No." Then Al-`Abbas said, "Then will you yourself help me carry it?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No." Then Al `Abbas threw away some of the money, but even then he was not 
able to lift it, and so he gain requested the Prophet (ﷺ) "Will you order someone to help me carry it?" The 
Prophet said, "No." Then Al-`Abbas said, "Then will you yourself yelp me carry it?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, 'No." So, Al-`Abbas threw away some more money and lifted it on his shoulder and went away. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on looking at him with astonishment at his greediness till he went out of our sight. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not get up from there till not a single Dirham remained from that money.
Bukhari:3165 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once said to me, "If the revenue of Bahrain came, I would give you this much and this 
much." When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had died, the revenue of Bahrain came, and Abu Bakr announced, " Let 
whoever was promised something by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) come to me." So, I went to Abu Bakr and said, 
"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, 'If the revenue of Bahrain came, I would give you this much and this. 
much." On that Abu Bakr said to me, "Scoop (money) with both your hands." I scooped money with 
both my hands and Abu Bakr asked me to count it. I counted it and it was five-hundred (gold pieces). 
The total amount he gave me was one thousand and five hundred (gold pieces.) 
Narrated Anas: Money from Bahrain was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) . He said, "Spread it in the Mosque." 
It was the biggest amount that had ever been brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . In the meantime Al-`Abbas 
came to him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me, for I gave the ransom of myself and `Aqil." The 
Prophet said (to him), "Take." He scooped money with both hands and poured it in his garment and 
tried to lift it, but he could not and appealed to the Prophet, "Will you order someone to help me in 
lifting it?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No." Then Al-`Abbas said, "Then will you yourself help me carry it?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No." Then Al `Abbas threw away some of the money, but even then he was not 
able to lift it, and so he gain requested the Prophet (ﷺ) "Will you order someone to help me carry it?" The 
Prophet said, "No." Then Al-`Abbas said, "Then will you yourself yelp me carry it?" The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, 'No." So, Al-`Abbas threw away some more money and lifted it on his shoulder and went away. 
The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on looking at him with astonishment at his greediness till he went out of our sight. 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not get up from there till not a single Dirham remained from that money.
Bukhari:3166 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever killed a person having a treaty with the Muslims, shall not smell the 
smell of Paradise though its smell is perceived from a distance of forty years."
Bukhari:3167 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were in the Mosque, the Prophet (ﷺ) came out and said, "Let us go to the Jews" We went out till 
we reached Bait-ul-Midras. He said to them, "If you embrace Islam, you will be safe. You should 
know that the earth belongs to Allah and His Apostle, and I want to expel you from this land. So, if 
anyone amongst you owns some property, he is permitted to sell it, otherwise you should know that 
the Earth belongs to Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:3168 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:that he heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "Thursday! And you know not what Thursday is? After that Ibn 
`Abbas wept till the stones on the ground were soaked with his tears. On that I asked Ibn `Abbas, 
"What is (about) Thursday?" He said, "When the condition (i.e. health) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
deteriorated, he said, 'Bring me a bone of scapula, so that I may write something for you after which 
you will never go astray.'The people differed in their opinions although it was improper to differ in 
front of a prophet, They said, 'What is wrong with him? Do you think he is delirious? Ask him (to 
understand). The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'Leave me as I am in a better state than what you are asking me to 
do.' Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to do three things saying, 'Turn out all the pagans from the 
Arabian Peninsula, show respect to all foreign delegates by giving them gifts as I used to do.' " The 
sub-narrator added, "The third order was something beneficial which either Ibn `Abbas did not 
mention or he mentioned but I forgot.'
Bukhari:3169 Narrated Abu Huraira:When Khaibar was conquered, a roasted poisoned sheep was presented to the Prophet (ﷺ) as a gift (by 
the Jews). The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered, "Let all the Jews who have been here, be assembled before me." The 
Jews were collected and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to them), "I am going to ask you a question. Will you tell 
the truth?" They said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who is your father?" They replied, "So-and-so." He 
said, "You have told a lie; your father is so-and-so." They said, "You are right." He said, "Will you 
now tell me the truth, if I ask you about something?" They replied, "Yes, O Abu Al-Qasim; and if we 
should tell a lie, you can realize our lie as you have done regarding our father." On that he asked, 
"Who are the people of the (Hell) Fire?" They said, "We shall remain in the (Hell) Fire for a short 
period, and after that you will replace us." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You may be cursed and humiliated in it! 
By Allah, we shall never replace you in it." Then he asked, "Will you now tell me the truth if I ask you 
a question?" They said, "Yes, O Abu Al-Qasim." He asked, "Have you poisoned this sheep?" They 
said, "Yes." He asked, "What made you do so?" They said, "We wanted to know if you were a liar in 
which case we would get rid of you, and if you are a prophet then the poison would not harm you."
Bukhari:3170 Narrated `Asim:I asked Anas about the Qunut (i.e. invocation in the prayer). Anas said, "It should be recited before 
bowing." I said, "So-and-so claims that you say that it should be recited after bowing." He replied, 
"He is mistaken." Then Anas narrated to us that the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on the tribe of Bani-Sulaim 
for one month after bowing. ' Anas Further said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) had sent 40 or 70 Qaris (i.e. men well 
versed in the knowledge of the Qur'an) to some pagans, but the latter struggled with them and 
martyred them, although there was a peace pact between them and the Prophet (ﷺ) I had never seen the 
Prophet so sorry and worried about anybody as he was about them (i.e. the Qaris).
Bukhari:3171 Narrated Um Hani:the daughter of Abu Talib: I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of the conquest of Mecca and found 
him taking a bath, and his daughter Fatima was screening him. I greeted him and he asked, "Who is 
that?" I said, "I, Um Hani bint Abi Talib." He said, "Welcome, O Um Hani." When he had finished his 
bath, he stood up and offered eight rak`at while dressed in one garment. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
My brother `Ali has declared that he will kill a man to whom I have granted asylum. The man is so 
and-so bin Hubaira." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Um Hani! We will grant asylum to the one whom you 
have granted asylum." (Um Hani said, "That (visit) took place in the Duha (i.e. forenoon)).
Bukhari:3172 Narrated Ibrahim at-Tamimi's father:`Ali delivered a sermon saying, "We have no book to read except the Book of Allah and what is 
written in this paper which contains verdicts regarding (retaliation for) wounds, the ages of the camels 
(given as Zakat or as blood money) and the fact that Medina is a sanctuary in between Air mountain to 
so-and-so (mountain). So, whoever innovates in it an heresy or commits a sin or gives shelter in it, to 
such an innovator will incur the Curse of Allah, the angels and all the people, and none of his 
compulsory or optional good deeds of worship will be accepted. And whoever (freed slave) takes as 
his master (i.e. befriends) other than his real masters will incur the same (Curse). And the asylum 
granted by any Muslim is to be secured by all the other Muslims, and whoever betrays a Muslim in 
this respect will incur the same (Curse).
Bukhari:3173 Narrated Sahl bin Abi Hathma:`Abdullah bin Sahl and Muhaiyisa bin Mas`ud bin Zaid set out to Khaibar, the inhabitants of which 
had a peace treaty with the Muslims at that time. They parted and later on Muhaiyisa came upon 
`Abdullah bin Sah! and found him murdered agitating in his blood. He buried him and returned to 
Medina. `Abdur Rahman bin Sahl, Muhaiyisa and Huwaiuisa, the sons of Mas`ud came to the Prophet (ﷺ) 
and `Abdur Rahman intended to talk, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Let the eldest of you speak." as 
`Abdur-Rahman was the youngest:. `Abdur-Rahman kept silent and the other two spoke. The Prophet (ﷺ) 
said, "If you swear as to who has committed the murder, you will have the right to take your right 
from the murderer." They said, "How should we swear if we did not witness the murder or see the 
murderer?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then the Jews can clear themselves from the charge by taking Alaska 
(an oath taken by men that it was not they who committed the murder)." The!y said, "How should we 
believe in the oaths of infidels?" So, the Prophet (ﷺ) himself paid the blood money (of `Abdullah). (See 
Hadith No. 36 Vol. 9.)
Bukhari:3174 Narrated ' `Abdullah bin `Abbas:That Abu Sufyan bin Harb Informed him that Heraclius called him and the members of a caravan 
from Quraish who had gone to Sham as traders, during the truce which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had concluded 
with Abu Sufyan and the Quraish infidels.
Bukhari:3175 Narrated Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was bewitched so that he began to imagine that he had done a thing which in fact he 
had not done.
Bukhari:3176 Narrated `Auf bin Mali:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) during the Ghazwa of Tabuk while he was sitting in a leather tent. He said, 
"Count six signs that indicate the approach of the Hour: my death, the conquest of Jerusalem, a plague 
that will afflict you (and kill you in great numbers) as the plague that afflicts sheep, the increase of 
wealth to such an extent that even if one is given one hundred Dinars, he will not be satisfied; then an 
affliction which no Arab house will escape, and then a truce between you and Bani Al-Asfar (i.e. the 
Byzantines) who will betray you and attack you under eighty flags. Under each flag will be twelve 
thousand soldiers.
Bukhari:3177 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu Bakr, on the day of Nahr (i.e. slaughtering of animals for sacrifice), sent me in the company of 
others to make this announcement: "After this year, no pagan will be allowed to perform the Hajj, and 
none will be allowed to perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba undressed." And the day of Al-Hajj-ul-Akbar 
is the day of Nahr, and it called Al-Akbar because the people call the `Umra Al-Hajj-ul-Asghar (i.e. 
the minor Hajj). Abu Bakr threw back the pagans' covenant that year, and therefore, no pagan 
performed the Hajj in the year of Hajj-ul-Wada` of the Prophets.
Bukhari:3178 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has (the following) four characteristics will be a pure hypocrite: "If he 
speaks, he tells a lie; if he gives a promise, he breaks it, if he makes a covenant he proves treacherous; 
and if he quarrels, he behaves in a very imprudent evil insulting manner (unjust). And whoever has 
one of these characteristics, has one characteristic of a hypocrite, unless he gives it us."
Bukhari:3179 Narrated `Ali:We did not, write anything from the Prophet (ﷺ) except the Qur'an and what is written in this paper, 
(wherein) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Medina is a sanctuary from (the mountain of) Air to so and-so, therefore, 
whoever innovates (in it) an heresy or commits a sin, or gives shelter to such an innovator, will incur 
the Curse of Allah. the angels and all the people; and none of his compulsory or optional good deeds 
of worship will be accepted And the asylum granted by any Muslim Is to be secured by all the 
Muslims even if it is granted by one of the lowest social status among them. And whoever betrays a 
Muslim in this respect will incur the Curse of Allah, the angels and all the people, and his compulsory 
and optional good deeds of worship will not be accepted. And any freed slave will take as masters 
(befriends) people other than his own real masters who freed him without taking the permission of the 
latter, will incur the Curse of Allah, the angels and all the people, and his compulsory and optional 
good deeds of worship will not be accepted."
Bukhari:3180 Narrated Sa`id:Abu Huraira once said (to the people), "What will your state be when you can get no 
Dinar or Dirhan (i.e. taxes from the Dhimmis)?" on that someone asked him, "What makes you know 
that this state will take place, O Abu- Hu raira?" He said, "By Him in Whose Hands Abu Huraira's life 
is, I know it through the statement of the true and truly inspired one (i.e. the Prophet)." The people 
asked, "What does the Statement say?" He replied, "Allah and His Apostle's asylum granted to 
Dhimmis, i.e. non-Muslims living in a Muslim territory) will be outraged, and so Allah will make the 
hearts of these Dhimmis so daring that they will refuse to pay the Jizya they will be supposed to pay."
Bukhari:3181 Narrated Al-A`mash:I asked Abu Wail, "Did you take part in the battle of Siffin?" He said, 'Yes, and I heard Sahl bin 
Hunaif (when he was blamed for lack of zeal for fighting) saying, "You'd better blame your wrong 
opinions. I wish you had seen me on the day of Abu Jandal. If I had the courage to disobey the 
Prophet's orders, I would have done so. We had kept out swords on our necks and shoulders, for a 
thing which frightened us. And we did so, we found it easier for us, except in the case of the above 
battle (of ours).' "
Bukhari:3182 Narrated Abu Wail:We were in Siffin and Sahl bin Hunaif got up and said, "O people! Blame yourselves! We were with 
the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Hudaibiya, and if we had been called to fight, we would have fought. But 
`Umar bin Al Khatab came and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Aren't we in the right and our opponents in 
the wrongs' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Yes.' `Umar said, 'Aren't our killed persons in Paradise and their's in 
Hell?' He said, 'Yes.' `Umar said, 'Then why should we accept hard terms in matters concerning our 
religion? Shall we return before Allah judges between us and them?' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'O Ibn Al- 
Khattab! I am the Messenger of Allah and Allah will never degrade me. Then `Umar went to Abu Bakr 
and told him the same as he had told the Prophet. 
On that Abu Bakr said (to `Umar). 'He is the Messenger of Allah and Allah will never degrade him.' Then 
Surat-al-Fath (i.e. Victory) was revealed and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited it to the end in front of `Umar. 
On that `Umar asked, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Was it (i.e. the Hudaibiya Treaty) a victory?' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, "Yes".
Bukhari:3183 Narrated Asma 'bint Abi Bakr:During the period of the peace treaty of Quraish with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), my mother, accompanied by her 
father, came to visit me, and she was a pagan. I consulted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My 
mother has come to me and she desires to receive a reward from me, shall I keep good relation with 
her?" He said, "Yes, keep good relation with her."
Bukhari:3184 Narrated Al-Bara:When the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to perform the `Umra he sent a person to the people of Mecca asking their 
permission to enter Mecca. They stipulated that he would not stay for more than three days and would 
not enter it except with sheathed arms and would not preach (Islam) to any of them. So `Ali bin Abi- 
Talib started writing the treaty between them. He wrote, "This is what Muhammad, Apostle of Allah 
has agreed to." The (Meccans) said, "If we knew that you (Muhammad) are the Messenger of Allah, then 
we would not have prevented you and would have followed you. But write, 'This is what Muhammad 
bin `Abdullah has agreed to..' " On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, I am Muhammad bin 
`Abdullah, and, by Allah, I am Apostle of 'Allah." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used not to write; so he asked `Ali 
to erase the expression of Apostle of Allah. On that `Ali said, "By Allah I will never erase it." Allah's 
Apostle said (to `Ali), "Let me see the paper." When `Ali showed him the paper, the Prophet (ﷺ) erased 
the expression with his own hand. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had entered Mecca and three days had 
elapsed, the Meccans came to `Ali and said, "Let your friend (i.e. the Prophet) quit Mecca." `Ali 
informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Yes," and then he departed.
Bukhari:3185 Narrated `Abdullah:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in the state of prostration, surrounded by a group of people from Quraish 
pagans. `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait came and brought the intestines of a camel and threw them on the back 
of the Prophet (ﷺ) . The Prophet (ﷺ) did not raise his head from prostration till Fatima (i.e. his daughter) came 
and removed those intestines from his back, and invoked evil on whoever had done (the evil deed). 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Destroy the chiefs of Quraish, O Allah! Destroy Abu Jahl bin Hisham, 
`Utba bin Rabi`a, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait, Umaiya bin Khalaf (or Ubai bin Kalaf)." 
Later on I saw all of them killed during the battle of Badr and their bodies were thrown into a well 
except the body of Umaiya or Ubai, because he was a fat person, and when he was pulled, the parts of 
his body got separated before he was thrown into the well.
Bukhari:3186 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, ''Every betrayer will have a flag on the Day of Resurrection" One of the two subnarrators 
said that the flag would be fixed, and the other said that it would be shown on the Day of 
Resurrection, so that the betrayer might be recognized by it.
Bukhari:3187 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, ''Every betrayer will have a flag on the Day of Resurrection" One of the two subnarrators 
said that the flag would be fixed, and the other said that it would be shown on the Day of 
Resurrection, so that the betrayer might be recognized by it.
Bukhari:3188 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every betrayer will have a flag which will be fixed on the Day of Resurrection, and 
the flag's prominence will be made in order to show the betrayal he committed."
Bukhari:3189 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the day of the conquest of Mecca, "There is no migration now, but there is 
Jihad (i.e.. holy battle) and good intentions. And when you are called for Jihad, you should come out 
at once" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also said, on the day of the conquest of Mecca, "Allah has made this town a 
sanctuary since the day He created the Heavens and the Earth. So, it is a sanctuary by Allah's Decree 
till the Day of Resurrection. Fighting in it was not legal for anyone before me, and it was made legal 
for me only for an hour by daytime. So, it (i.e. Mecca) is a sanctuary by Allah's Decree till the Day of 
Resurrection. Its thorny bushes should not be cut, and its game should not be chased, its fallen 
property (i.e. Luqata) should not be picked up except by one who will announce it publicly; and its 
grass should not be uprooted," On that Al-`Abbas said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Except the Idhkhir, 
because it is used by the goldsmiths and by the people for their houses." On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Except the Idhkhir."
Bukhari:3190 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:Some people of Bani Tamim came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said (to them), "O Bani Tamim! rejoice with 
glad tidings." They said, "You have given us glad tidings, now give us something." On hearing that 
the color of his face changed then the people of Yemen came to him and he said, "O people of Yemen 
! Accept the good tidings, as Bani Tamim has refused them." The Yemenites said, "We accept them. 
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) started taking about the beginning of creation and about Allah's Throne. In the mean 
time a man came saying, "O `Imran! Your she-camel has run away!'' (I got up and went away), but l 
wish I had not left that place (for I missed what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said).
Bukhari:3191 Narrated Imran bin Husain:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and tied my she-camel at the gate. The people of Bani Tamim came to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said "O Bani Tamim! Accept the good tidings." They said twice, 'You have given us the good tidings, now give us something" Then some Yemenites came to him and he said, "Accept the good tidings, O people of Yemem, for Bani Tamim refused them." They said, "We accept it, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We have come to ask you about this matter (i.e. the start of creations)." He said, "First of all, there was nothing but Allah, and (then He created His Throne). His throne was over the water, and He wrote everything in the Book (in the Heaven) and created the Heavens and the Earth." Then a man shouted, "O Ibn Husain! Your she-camel has gone away!" So, I went away and could not see the she-camel because of the mirage. By Allah, I wished I had left that she-camel (but not that gathering).
Bukhari:3192 Narrated 'Umar:One day the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up amongst us for a long period and informed us about the beginning of creation (and talked about everything in detail) till he mentioned how the people of Paradise will enter their places and the people of Hell will enter their places. Some remembered what he had said, and some forgot it.
Bukhari:3193 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah the Most Superior said, "The son of Adam slights Me, and he should not 
slight Me, and he disbelieves in Me, and he ought not to do so. As for his slighting Me, it is that he 
says that I have a son; and his disbelief in Me is his statement that I shall not recreate him as I have 
created (him) before."
Bukhari:3194 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Allah completed the creation, He wrote in His Book which is with Him 
on His Throne, "My Mercy overpowers My Anger."
Bukhari:3195 Narrated Muhammad bin Ibrahim bin Al-Harith:from Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman who had a dispute with some people on a piece of land, and so 
he went to `Aisha and told her about it. She said, "O Abu Salama, avoid the land, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said, 'Any person who takes even a span of land unjustly, his neck shall be encircled with it down 
seven earths.' "
Bukhari:3196 Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Any person who takes a piece of land unjustly will sink down the seven earths on 
the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:3197 Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said. "(The division of time has turned to its original form which was current when Allah 
created the Heavens and the Earths. The year is of twelve months, out of which four months are 
sacred: Three are in succession Dhul-Qa' da, Dhul-Hijja and Muharram, and (the fourth is) Rajab of 
(the tribe of) Mudar which comes between Jumadi-ath-Thaniyah and Sha ban."
Bukhari:3198 Narrated Sa`id bin Zaid bin `Amr bin Nufail:That Arwa sued him before Marwan for a right, which she claimed, he had deprived her of. On that 
Sa`id said, "How should I deprive her of her right? I testify that I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'If 
anyone takes a span of land unjustly, his neck will be encircled with it down seven earths on the Day 
of Resurrection."
Bukhari:3199 Narrated Abu Dhar:The Prophet (ﷺ) asked me at sunset, "Do you know where the sun goes (at the time of sunset)?" I replied, 
"Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "It goes (i.e. travels) till it prostrates Itself underneath 
the Throne and takes the permission to rise again, and it is permitted and then (a time will come when) 
it will be about to prostrate itself but its prostration will not be accepted, and it will ask permission to 
go on its course but it will not be permitted, but it will be ordered to return whence it has come and so 
it will rise in the west. And that is the interpretation of the Statement of Allah: "And the sun Runs its 
fixed course For a term (decreed). that is The Decree of (Allah) The Exalted in Might, The All- 
Knowing." (36.38)
Bukhari:3200 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon will be folded up (deprived of their light) on the Day of 
Resurrection."
Bukhari:3201 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of someone's death or life (i.e. 
birth), but they are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah. So, if you see them (i.e. eclipse) offer the (eclipse) prayer.
Bukhari:3202 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah. They do not 
eclipse because of someone's death or life. So, if you see them (i.e. eclipse), celebrate the Praises of 
Allah (i.e. pray).
Bukhari:3203 Narrated `Aisha:On the day of a solar eclipse, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up (to offer the eclipse prayer). He recited Takbir, 
recited a long recitation (of Holy Verses), bowed a long bowing, and then he raised h is head saying. 
"Allah hears him who sends his praises to Him." Then he stayed standing, recited a long recitation 
again, but shorter than the former, bowed a long bowing, but shorter than the first, performed a long 
prostration and then performed the second rak`a in the same way as he had done the first. By the time 
he had finished his prayer with Taslim, the solar eclipse had been over. Then he addressed the people 
referring to the solar and lunar eclipses saying, "These are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah, and 
they do not eclipse because of anyone's death or life. So, if you see them, hasten for the Prayer."
Bukhari:3204 Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "the sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death or life of someone, but 
they are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah. So, if you see them, offer the Prayer (of eclipse).
Bukhari:3205 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been made victorious with the Saba (i.e. easterly wind) and the people of 
'Ad were destroyed with the Dabur (i.e. westerly wind) ."
Bukhari:3206 Narrated Ata:`Aisha said If the Prophet (ﷺ) saw a cloud In the sky, he would walk to and fro in agitation, go out and 
come in, and the color of his face would change, and if it rained, he would feel relaxed." So `Aisha 
knew that state of his. So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, I don't know (am afraid), it may be similar to what 
happened to some people referred to in the Holy Qur'an in the following Verse: -- "Then when they 
saw it as a dense cloud coming towards their valleys, they said, 'This is a cloud bringing us rain!' Nay, 
but, it is that (torment) which you were asking to be hastened a wind wherein is severe torment." 
(46.24)
Bukhari:3207 Narrated Malik bin Sasaa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While I was at the House in a state midway between sleep and wakefulness, (an 
angel recognized me) as the man lying between two men. A golden tray full of wisdom and belief was 
brought to me and my body was cut open from the throat to the lower part of the `Abdomen and then 
my `Abdomen was washed with Zamzam water and (my heart was) filled with wisdom and belief. Al- 
Buraq, a white animal, smaller than a mule and bigger than a donkey was brought to me and I set out 
with Gabriel. When I reached the nearest heaven. Gabriel said to the heaven gate-keeper, 'Open the 
gate.' The gatekeeper asked, 'Who is it?' He said, 'Gabriel.' The gate-keeper,' Who is accompanying 
you?' Gabriel said, 'Muhammad.' The gate-keeper said, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel said, 'Yes.' Then 
it was said, 'He is welcomed. What a wonderful visit his is!' Then I met Adam and greeted him and he 
said, 'You are welcomed O son and a Prophet.' Then we ascended to the second heaven. It was asked, 
'Who is it?' Gabriel said, 'Gabriel.' It was said, 'Who is with you?' He said, 'Muhammad' It was asked, 
'Has he been sent for?' He said, 'Yes.' It was said, 'He is welcomed. What a wonderful visit his is!" 
Then I met Jesus and Yahya (John) who said, 'You are welcomed, O brother and a Prophet.' Then we 
ascended to the third heaven. It was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel said, 'Gabriel.' It was asked, 'Who is 
with you? Gabriel said, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been sent for?' 'Yes,' said Gabriel. 'He is 
welcomed. What a wonderful visit his is!' (The Prophet (ﷺ) added:). There I met Joseph and greeted him, 
and he replied, 'You are welcomed, O brother and a Prophet!' Then we ascended to the 4th heaven and 
again the same questions and answers were exchanged as in the previous heavens. There I met Idris 
and greeted him. He said, 'You are welcomed O brother and Prophet.' Then we ascended to the 5th 
heaven and again the same questions and answers were exchanged as in previous heavens. there I met 
and greeted Aaron who said, 'You are welcomed O brother and a Prophet". 
Then we ascended to the 6th heaven and again the same questions and answers were exchanged as in 
the previous heavens. There I met and greeted Moses who said, 'You are welcomed O brother and. a 
Prophet.' When I proceeded on, he started weeping and on being asked why he was weeping, he said, 
'O Lord! Followers of this youth who was sent after me will enter Paradise in greater number than my 
followers.' Then we ascended to the seventh heaven and again the same questions and answers were 
exchanged as in the previous heavens. There I met and greeted Abraham who said, 'You are 
welcomed o son and a Prophet.' Then I was shown Al-Bait-al-Ma'mur (i.e. Allah's House). I asked 
Gabriel about it and he said, This is Al Bait-ul-Ma'mur where 70,000 angels perform prayers daily and 
when they leave they never return to it (but always a fresh batch comes into it daily).' 
Then I was shown Sidrat-ul-Muntaha (i.e. a tree in the seventh heaven) and I saw its Nabk fruits 
which resembled the clay jugs of Hajr (i.e. a town in Arabia), and its leaves were like the ears of 
elephants, and four rivers originated at its root, two of them were apparent and two were hidden. I 
asked Gabriel about those rivers and he said, 'The two hidden rivers are in Paradise, and the apparent 
ones are the Nile and the Euphrates.' 
Then fifty prayers were enjoined on me. I descended till I met Moses who asked me, 'What have you 
done?' I said, 'Fifty prayers have been enjoined on me.' He said, 'I know the people better than you, 
because I had the hardest experience to bring Bani Israel to obedience. Your followers cannot put up 
with such obligation. So, return to your Lord and request Him (to reduce the number of prayers.' I 
returned and requested Allah (for reduction) and He made it forty. I returned and (met Moses) and had 
a similar discussion, and then returned again to Allah for reduction and He made it thirty, then twenty, 
then ten, and then I came to Moses who repeated the same advice. Ultimately Allah reduced it to five. 
When I came to Moses again, he said, 'What have you done?' I said, 'Allah has made it five only.' He 
repeated the same advice but I said that I surrendered (to Allah's Final Order)'" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was 
addressed by Allah, "I have decreed My Obligation and have reduced the burden on My slaves, and I 
shall reward a single good deed as if it were ten good deeds."
Bukhari:3208 Narrated `Abdullah bin Mus'ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the true and truly inspired said, "(The matter of the Creation of) a human being is put 
together in the womb of the mother in forty days, and then he becomes a clot of thick blood for a 
similar period, and then a piece of flesh for a similar period. Then Allah sends an angel who is ordered 
to write four things. He is ordered to write down his (i.e. the new creature's) deeds, his livelihood, his 
(date of) death, and whether he will be blessed or wretched (in religion). Then the soul is breathed into 
him. So, a man amongst you may do (good deeds till there is only a cubit between him and Paradise 
and then what has been written for him decides his behavior and he starts doing (evil) deeds 
characteristic of the people of the (Hell) Fire. And similarly a man amongst you may do (evil) deeds 
till there is only a cubit between him and the (Hell) Fire, and then what has been written for him 
decides his behavior, and he starts doing deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise."
Bukhari:3209 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Allah loves a person, He calls Gabriel saying, 'Allah loves so and-so; O Gabriel! 
Love him.' Gabriel would love him and make an announcement amongst the inhabitants of the 
Heaven. 'Allah loves so-and-so, therefore you should love him also,' and so all the inhabitants of the 
Heaven would love him, and then he is granted the pleasure of the people on the earth."
Bukhari:3210 Narrated `Aisha:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The angels descend, the clouds and mention this or that matter 
decreed in the Heaven. The devils listen stealthily to such a matter, come down to inspire the 
soothsayers with it, and the latter would add to it one-hundred lies of their own."
Bukhari:3211 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On every Friday the angels take their stand at every gate of the mosque to write the names of the people chronologically (i.e. according to the time of their arrival for the Friday prayer) and when the Imam sits (on the pulpit) they fold up their scrolls and get ready to listen to the sermon."
Bukhari:3212 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:`Umar came to the Mosque while Hassan was reciting a poem. (`Umar disapproved of that). On that 
Hassan said, "I used to recite poetry in this very Mosque in the presence of one (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) who 
was better than you." Then he turned towards Abu Huraira and said (to him), "I ask you by Allah, did 
you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying (to me), "Retort on my behalf. O Allah! Support him (i.e. Hassan) 
with the Holy Spirit?" Abu Huraira said, "Yes."
Bukhari:3213 Narrated Al Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Lampoon them (i.e. the pagans) and Gabriel is with you."
Bukhari:3214 Narrated Jarir:as below.Narrated Humaid bin Hilal:Anas bin Malik said, "As if I say a cloud of dust swirling up in the lane of Bani Ghanim." Musa 
added, "That was caused by the procession of Gabriel."
Bukhari:3215 Narrated Aisha:Al Harith bin Hisham asked the Prophet, "How does the divine inspiration come to you?" He replied, 
"In all these ways: The Angel sometimes comes to me with a voice which resembles the sound of a 
ringing bell, and when this state abandons me, I remember what the Angel has said, and this type of 
Divine Inspiration is the hardest on me; and sometimes the Angel comes to me in the shape of a man 
and talks to me, and I understand and remember what he says."
Bukhari:3216 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Who ever spends a couple (of objects) in Allah's cause, will be called by 
the Gatekeepers of Paradise who will say, "O so-and-so, come on!" Abu Bakr said, "Such a person 
will never perish or be miserable' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I hope you will be among such person."
Bukhari:3217 Narrated Abu Salama:`Aisha said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her "O `Aisha' This is Gabriel and he sends his (greetings) 
salutations to you." `Aisha said, "Salutations (Greetings) to him, and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be 
on him," and addressing the Prophet (ﷺ) she said, "You see what I don't see."
Bukhari:3218 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked Gabriel, "Why don't you visit us more often than you do?" Then the following 
Holy Verse was revealed (in this respect):-- "And we (angels) descend not but by the order of your 
Lord. To Him belong what is before us and what is behind us, and what is between those two and your 
Lord was never forgetful." (19.64)
Bukhari:3219 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel read the Qur'an to me in one way (i.e. dialect) and I continued asking 
him to read it in different ways till he read it in seven different ways."
Bukhari:3220 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the most generous of all the people, and he used to be more generous in the 
month of Ramadan when Gabriel used to meet him. Gabriel used to meet him every night in Ramadan 
to study the Holy Qur'an carefully together. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to become more generous than the 
fast wind when he met Gabriel.
Bukhari:3221 Narrated Ibn Shihab:Once `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz delayed the `Asr prayer a little. `Urwa said to him, "Gabriel descended 
and led the prayer in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) " On that `Umar said, "O `Urwa! Be sure of what you say." 
"Urwa, "I heard Bashir bin Abi Masud narrating from Ibn Masud who heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 
'Gabriel descended and led me in prayer; and then prayed with him again, and then prayed with him 
again, and then prayed with him again, and then prayed with him again, counting with his fingers five 
prayers."
Bukhari:3222 Narrated Abu Dhar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel said to me, 'Whoever amongst your followers die without having 
worshipped others besides Allah, will enter Paradise (or will not enter the (Hell) Fire)." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
asked. "Even if he has committed illegal sexual intercourse or theft?" He replied, "Even then."
Bukhari:3223 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Angels keep on descending from and ascending to the Heaven in turn, some at 
night and some by daytime, and all of them assemble together at the time of the Fajr and `Asr prayers. 
Then those who have stayed with you over-night, ascent unto Allah Who asks them, and He knows 
the answer better than they, "How have you left My slaves?" They reply, "We have left them praying 
as we found them praying." If anyone of you says "Amin" (during the Prayer at the end of the 
recitation of Surat-al-Faitiha), and the angels in Heaven say the same, and the two sayings coincide, 
all his past sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:3224 Narrated `Aisha:I stuffed for the Prophet (ﷺ) a pillow decorated with pictures (of animals) which looked like a Namruqa 
(i.e. a small cushion). He came and stood between the two doors and his face began to change. I 
said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What did we do wrong?" He said, "What is this pillow?" I said, "I have prepared this 
pillow for you, so that you may recline on it." He said, "Don't you know that angels do not enter a 
house wherein there are pictures; and whoever makes a picture will be punished on the Day of 
Resurrection and will be asked to give life to (what he has created)?"
Bukhari:3225 Narrated Abu Talha:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying; "Angels (of Mercy) do not enter a house wherein there is a dog or a 
picture of a living creature (a human being or an animal).
Bukhari:3226 Narrated Busr bin Sa`id:That Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani narrated to him something in the presence of Sa`id bin 'Ubaidullah Al- 
Khaulani who was brought up in the house of Maimuna the wife of the Prophet. Zaid narrated to them 
that Abu Talha said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Angels (of Mercy) do not enter a house wherein there 
is a picture." Busr said, "Later on Zaid bin Khalid fell ill and we called on him. To our surprise we 
saw a curtain decorated with pictures in his house. I said to Ubaidullah Al-Khaulani, "Didn't he (i.e. 
Zaid) tell us about the (prohibition of) pictures?" He said, "But he excepted the embroidery on 
garments. Didn't you hear him?" I said, "No." He said, "Yes, he did."
Bukhari:3227 Narrated Salim's father:Once Gabriel promised the Prophet (that he would visit him, but Gabriel did not come) and later on he 
said, "We, angels, do not enter a house which contains a picture or a dog."
Bukhari:3228 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam, during the prayer, says, "Allah hears him who praises Him', 
say: 'O Allah! Our Lord! All the praises are for You/, for if the saying of anyone of you coincides with 
the saying of the angels, his past sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:3229 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As long as any-one of you is waiting for the prayer, he is considered to be praying 
actually, and the angels say, 'O Allah! Be merciful to him and forgive him', (and go on saying so) 
unless he leaves his place of praying or passes wind (i.e. breaks his ablution).
Bukhari:3230 Narrated Yali:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting the following Verse on the pulpit: "They will call: O Malik...' and Sufyan 
said that `Abdullah recited it: 'They will call: O Mali...' (43.77)
Bukhari:3231 Narrated `Aisha:That she asked the Prophet (ﷺ) , 'Have you encountered a day harder than the day of the battle) of Uhud?" 
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Your tribes have troubled me a lot, and the worse trouble was the trouble on the 
day of 'Aqaba when I presented myself to Ibn `Abd-Yalail bin `Abd-Kulal and he did not respond to 
my demand. So I departed, overwhelmed with excessive sorrow, and proceeded on, and could not 
relax till I found myself at Qarnath-Tha-alib where I lifted my head towards the sky to see a cloud 
shading me unexpectedly. I looked up and saw Gabriel in it. He called me saying, 'Allah has heard 
your people's saying to you, and what they have replied back to you, Allah has sent the Angel of the 
Mountains to you so that you may order him to do whatever you wish to these people.' The Angel of 
the Mountains called and greeted me, and then said, "O Muhammad! Order what you wish. If you 
like, I will let Al-Akh-Shabain (i.e. two mountains) fall on them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No but I hope 
that Allah will let them beget children who will worship Allah Alone, and will worship None besides 
Him."
Bukhari:3232 Narrated Abu 'Is-haq-Ash-Shaibani:I asked Zir bin Hubaish regarding the Statement of Allah: "And was at a distance Of but two bowlengths 
Or (even) nearer; So did (Allah) convey The Inspiration to His slave (Gabriel) and then he 
(Gabriel) Conveyed (that to Muhammad). (53.9-10) On that, Zir said, "Ibn Mas`ud informed us that 
the Prophet (ﷺ) had seen Gabriel having 600 wings."
Bukhari:3233 Narrated `Abdullah:Regarding the Verse: "Indeed he (Muhammad) did see. Of the Signs of his Lord, The Greatest!" 
(53.18) That the Prophet (ﷺ) had seen a green carpet spread all over the horizon of the sky.
Bukhari:3234 Narrated Aisha:Whoever claimed that (the Prophet) Muhammad saw his Lord, is committing a great fault, for he only 
saw Gabriel in his genuine shape in which he was created covering the whole horizon.
Bukhari:3235 Narrated Masruq:I asked Aisha "What about His Statement:-- "Then he (Gabriel) approached And came closer, And 
was at a distance Of but two bow-lengths Or (even) nearer?" (53.8-9) She replied, "It was Gabriel who 
used to come to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the figure of a man, but on that occasion, he came in his actual and real 
figure and (he was so huge) that he covered the whole horizon."
Bukhari:3236 Narrated Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night I saw (in a dream) two men coming to me. One of them said, "The 
person who kindles the fire is Malik, the gate-keeper of the (Hell) Fire, and I am Gabriel, and this is 
Michael."
Bukhari:3237 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a husband calls his wife to his bed (i.e. to have sexual relation) and she 
refuses and causes him to sleep in anger, the angels will curse her till morning."
Bukhari:3238 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The Divine Inspiration was delayed for a short period but suddenly, 
as I was walking. I heard a voice in the sky, and when I looked up towards the sky, to my surprise, I 
saw the angel who had come to me in the Hira Cave, and he was sitting on a chair in between the sky 
and the earth. I was so frightened by him that I fell on the ground and came to my family and said (to 
them), 'Cover me! (with a blanket), cover me!' Then Allah sent the Revelation: "O, You wrapped up 
(In a blanket)! (Arise and warn! And your Lord magnify And keep pure your garments, And desert the 
idols." (74.1-5)
Bukhari:3239 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the night of my Ascent to the Heaven, I saw Moses who was a tall brown curlyhaired 
man as if he was one of the men of Shan'awa tribe, and I saw Jesus, a man of medium height 
and moderate complexion inclined to the red and white colors and of lank hair. I also saw Malik, the 
gate-keeper of the (Hell) Fire and Ad-Dajjal amongst the signs which Allah showed me." (The 
Prophet then recited the Holy Verse): "So be not you in doubt of meeting him' when you met Moses 
during the night of Mi'raj over the heavens" (32.23) 
Narrated Anas and Abu Bakra: "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The angels will guard Medina from Ad-Dajjal 
(who will not be able to enter the city of Medina).
Bukhari:3240 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you dies, he will be shown his destination both in the morning 
and in the evening, and if he belongs to the people of Paradise, he will be shown his place in Paradise, 
and if he is from the people of Hell, he will be shown his place in Hell."
Bukhari:3241 Narrated `Imran bin Husain:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked at Paradise and found poor people forming the majority of its inhabitants; 
and I looked at Hell and saw that the majority of its inhabitants were women."
Bukhari:3242 Narrated Abu Huraira:While we were in the company of the Prophet, he said, "While I was asleep, I saw myself in Paradise 
and there I beheld a woman making ablution beside a palace, I asked, To whom does this palace 
belong? 'They said, To `Umar bin Al-Khattab.' Then I remembered `Umar's Ghaira (concerning 
women), and so I quickly went away from that palace." (When `Umar heard this from the Prophet), he 
wept and said, "Do you think it is likely that I feel Ghaira because of you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Bukhari:3243 Narrated `Abdullah bin Qais Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A tent (in Paradise) is like a hollow pearl which is thirty miles in height and on 
every corner of the tent the believer will have a family that cannot be seen by the others." (Narrated 
Abu `Imran in another narration, "The tent is sixty miles in height.")
Bukhari:3244 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, "I have prepared for My Pious slaves things which have never been 
seen by an eye, or heard by an ear, or imagined by a human being." If you wish, you can recite this 
Verse from the Holy Qur'an:--"No soul knows what is kept hidden for them, of joy as a reward for 
what they used to do." (32.17)
Bukhari:3245 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The first group (of people) who will enter Paradise will be (glittering) like the 
moon when it is full. They will not spit or blow their noses or relieve nature. Their utensils will be of 
gold and their combs of gold and silver; in their centers the aloe wood will be used, and their sweat 
will smell like musk. Everyone of them will have two wives; the marrow of the bones of the wives' 
legs will be seen through the flesh out of excessive beauty. They ( i.e. the people of Paradise) will 
neither have differences nor hatred amongst themselves; their hearts will be as if one heart and they 
will be glorifying Allah in the morning and in the evening."
Bukhari:3246 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The first batch (of people) who will enter Paradise will be (glittering) like a full 
moon; and those who will enter next will be (glittering) like the brightest star. Their hearts will be as if 
the heart of a single man, for they will have no enmity amongst themselves, and everyone of them 
shall have two wives, each of whom will be so beautiful, pure and transparent that the marrow of the 
bones of their legs will be seen through the flesh. They will be glorifying Allah in the morning and 
evening, and will never fall ill, and they will neither blow their noses, nor spit. Their utensils will be 
of gold and silver, and their combs will be of gold, and the fuel used in their centers will be the aloeswood, 
and their sweat will smell like musk."
Bukhari:3247 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Verily! 70,000 or 700,000 of my followers will enter Paradise altogether; so that 
the first and the last amongst them will enter at the same time, and their faces will be glittering like the 
bright full moon."
Bukhari:3248 Narrated Anas bin Malik:A silken cloak was presented to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to forbid the usage of silk (by men). When 
the people were fascinated by the cloak. he said, "By Allah in Whose Hands the life of Muhammad is, 
the handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh in Paradise are better than this."
Bukhari:3249 Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was given a silken garment, and its beauty and delicacy astonished the people. On 
that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, the handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh in Paradise are better than 
this."
Bukhari:3250 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d Al-Saidi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A place in Paradise equal to the size of a lash is better than the whole world and 
whatever is in it."
Bukhari:3251 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a tree in Paradise (which is so big and huge that) if a rider travels in its 
shade for one hundred years, he would not be able to cross it."
Bukhari:3252 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "There is a tree in Paradise (which is so big and huge that) a rider could travel in its 
shade for a hundred years. And if you wish, you can recite:--'In shade long extended..' (56. 30) and a 
place in Paradise equal to an arrow bow of one of you, is better than (the whole earth) on which the 
sun rises and sets."
Bukhari:3253 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "There is a tree in Paradise (which is so big and huge that) a rider could travel in its 
shade for a hundred years. And if you wish, you can recite:--'In shade long extended..' (56. 30) and a 
place in Paradise equal to an arrow bow of one of you, is better than (the whole earth) on which the 
sun rises and sets."
Bukhari:3254 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The first batch (of people) who will enter Paradise will be (glittering) like the full 
moon, and the batch next to them will be (glittering) like the most brilliant star in the sky. Their hearts 
will be as if the heart of a single man, for they will have neither enmity nor jealousy amongst 
themselves; everyone will have two wives from the houris, (who will be so beautiful, pure and 
transparent that) the marrow of the bones of their legs will be seen through the bones and the flesh."
Bukhari:3255 Narrated Al-Bara (bin Azib):The Prophet, after the death of his son Ibrahim, said, "There is a wet-nurse for him (i.e. Ibrahim) in 
Paradise."
Bukhari:3256 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Paradise will look at the dwellers of the lofty mansions (i.e. a 
superior place in Paradise) in the same way as one looks at a brilliant star far away in the East or in the 
West on the horizon; all that is because of their superiority over one another (in rewards)." On that the 
people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Are these lofty mansions for the prophets which nobody else can 
reach? The Prophet (ﷺ) replied," No! "By Allah in whose Hands my life is, these are for the men who 
believed in Allah and also believed in the Apostles."
Bukhari:3257 Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise has eight gates, and one of them is called Ar-Raiyan through which none 
will enter but those who observe fasting."
Bukhari:3258 Narrated Abu Dhar:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey, he said (regarding the performance of the Zuhr prayer), "Wait till 
it (i.e. the weather) gets cooler." He said the same again till the shade of the hillocks extended. Then 
he said, "Delay the (Zuhr) Prayer till it gets cooler, for the severity of heat is from the increase in heat 
of Hell (fire).
Bukhari:3259 Narrated Abu Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Delay the (Zuhr) Prayer till it gets cooler, for the severity of heat is from the 
increase in the heat of Hell (fire).
Bukhari:3260 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (Hell) Fire complained to its Lord saying, 'O my Lord! My different parts 
eat up each other.' So, He allowed it to take two breaths, one in the winter and the other in summer, 
and this is the reason for the severe heat and the bitter cold you find (in weather).
Bukhari:3261 Narrated Abu Jamra Ad-Dabi:I used to sit with Ibn `Abbas in Mecca. Once I had a fever and he said (to me), "Cool your fever with 
Zamzam water, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: 'It, (the Fever) is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire; so, cool it 
with water (or Zamzam water).
Bukhari:3262 Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Fever is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire; so cool it with water."
Bukhari:3263 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fever is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire, so cool it with water."
Bukhari:3264 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fever is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire; so abate fever with water."
Bukhari:3265 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Your (ordinary) fire is one of 70 parts of the (Hell) Fire." Someone asked, "O 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) This (ordinary) fire would have been sufficient (to torture the unbelievers)," Allah's 
Apostle said, "The (Hell) Fire has 69 parts more than the ordinary (worldly) fire, each part is as hot as 
this (worldly) fire."
Bukhari:3266 Narrated Yali:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) on the pulpit reciting:-- 
"They will cry: "O Malik!' (43.77) (Malik is the gate-keeper (angel) of the (Hell) Fire.)
Bukhari:3267 Narrated Abu Wail:Somebody said to Usama, "Will you go to so-and-so (i.e. `Uthman) and talk to him (i.e. advise him 
regarding ruling the country)?" He said, "You see that I don't talk to him. Really I talk to (advise) him 
secretly without opening a gate (of affliction), for neither do I want to be the first to open it (i.e. 
rebellion), nor will I say to a man who is my ruler that he is the best of all the people after I have 
heard something from Allah s Apostle ." They said, What have you heard him saying? He said, "I 
have heard him saying, "A man will be brought on the Day of Resurrection and thrown in the (Hell) 
Fire, so that his intestines will come out, and he will go around like a donkey goes around a millstone. 
The people of (Hell) Fire will gather around him and say: O so-and-so! What is wrong with you? 
Didn't you use to order us to do good deeds and forbid us to do bad deeds? He will reply: Yes, I used 
to order you to do good deeds, but I did not do them myself, and I used to forbid you to do bad deeds, 
yet I used to do them myself."
Bukhari:3268 Narrated `Aisha:Magic was worked on the Prophet (ﷺ) so that he began to fancy that he was doing a thing which he was 
not actually doing. One day he invoked (Allah) for a long period and then said, "I feel that Allah has 
inspired me as how to cure myself. Two persons came to me (in my dream) and sat, one by my head 
and the other by my feet. One of them asked the other, "What is the ailment of this man?" The other 
replied, 'He has been bewitched" The first asked, 'Who has bewitched him?' The other replied, 'Lubaid 
bin Al-A'sam.' The first one asked, 'What material has he used?' The other replied, 'A comb, the hair 
gathered on it, and the outer skin of the pollen of the male date-palm.' The first asked, 'Where is that?' 
The other replied, 'It is in the well of Dharwan.' " So, the Prophet (ﷺ) went out towards the well and then 
returned and said to me on his return, "Its date-palms (the date-palms near the well) are like the heads 
of the devils." I asked, "Did you take out those things with which the magic was worked?" He said, 
"No, for I have been cured by Allah and I am afraid that this action may spread evil amongst the 
people." Later on the well was filled up with earth.
Bukhari:3269 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "During your sleep, Satan knots three knots at the back of the head of each of 
you, and he breathes the following words at each knot, 'The night is, long, so keep on sleeping,' If that 
person wakes up and celebrates the praises of Allah, then one knot is undone, and when he performs 
ablution the second knot is undone, and when he prays, all the knots are undone, and he gets up in the 
morning lively and in good spirits, otherwise he gets up in low spirits and lethargic."
Bukhari:3270 Narrated `Abdullah:It was mentioned before the Prophet (ﷺ) that there was a man who slept the night till morning (after 
sunrise). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He is a man in whose ears (or ear) Satan had urinated."
Bukhari:3271 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you, when having sexual relation with his wife, say: 'In the name of 
Allah. O Allah! Protect us from Satan and prevent Satan from approaching our offspring you are 
going to give us,' and if he begets a child (as a result of that relation) Satan will not harm it."
Bukhari:3272 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the (upper) edge of the sun appears (in the morning), don't perform a 
prayer till the sun appears in full, and when the lower edge of the sun sets, don't perform a prayer till it 
sets completely. And you should not seek to pray at sunrise or sunset for the sun rises between two 
sides of the head of the devil (or Satan).
Bukhari:3273 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the (upper) edge of the sun appears (in the morning), don't perform a 
prayer till the sun appears in full, and when the lower edge of the sun sets, don't perform a prayer till it 
sets completely. And you should not seek to pray at sunrise or sunset for the sun rises between two 
sides of the head of the devil (or Satan).
Bukhari:3274 Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If while you are praying, somebody intends to pass in front of you, prevent him; and should he insist, prevent him again; and if he insists again, fight with him (i.e. prevent him violently e.g. pushing him violently), because such a person is (like) a devil."
Bukhari:3275 Narrated Muhammad bin Sirin:Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put me in charge of the Zakat of Ramadan (i.e. Zakat-ul-Fitr). Someone came to me and started scooping some of the foodstuff of (Zakat) with both hands. I caught him and told him that I would take him to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Then Abu Huraira told the whole narration and added "He (i.e. the thief) said, 'Whenever you go to your bed, recite the Verse of "Al-Kursi" (2.255) for then a guardian from Allah will be guarding you, and Satan will not approach you till dawn.' "On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He told you the truth, though he is a liar, and he (the thief) himself was a satan."
Bukhari:3276 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Satan comes to one of you and says, 'Who created so-and-so? 'till he says, 'Who 
has created your Lord?' So, when he inspires such a question, one should seek refuge with Allah and 
give up such thoughts."
Bukhari:3277 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the month of Ramadan comes, the gates of Paradise are opened and the 
gates of the (Hell) Fire are closed, and the devils are chained."
Bukhari:3278 Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "(The prophet) Moses said to his attendant, "Bring us our early 
meal' (18.62). The latter said, 'Did you remember when we betook ourselves to the rock? I indeed 
forgot the fish and none but Satan made me forget to remember it." (18.63) Moses did not feel tired 
till he had crossed the place which Allah ordered him to go to."
Bukhari:3279 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pointing towards the east saying, "Lo! Afflictions will verily emerge hence; 
afflictions will verily emerge hence where the (side of the head of) Satan appears."
Bukhari:3280 Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When nightfalls, then keep your children close to you, for the devil spread out 
then. An hour later you can let them free; and close the gates of your house (at night), and mention 
Allah's Name thereupon, and cover your utensils, and mention Allah's Name thereupon, (and if you 
don't have something to cover your utensil) you may put across it something (e.g. a piece of wood 
etc.).
Bukhari:3281 Narrated Safiya bint Huyay:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in I`tikaf, I called on him at night and having had a talk with him, I got up 
to depart. He got up also to accompany me to my dwelling place, which was then in the house of 
Usama bin Zaid. Two Ansari men passed by, and when they saw the Prophet (ﷺ) they hastened away. The 
Prophet said (to them). "Don't hurry! It is Safiya, the daughter of Huyay (i.e. my wife)." They said, 
"Glorified be Allah! O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (How dare we suspect you?)" He said, "Satan circulates in the 
human mind as blood circulates in it, and I was afraid that Satan might throw an evil thought (or 
something) into your hearts."
Bukhari:3282 Narrated Sulaiman bin Surd:While I was sitting in the company of the Prophet, two men abused each other and the face of one of 
them became red with anger, and his jugular veins swelled (i.e. he became furious). On that the 
Prophet said, "I know a word, the saying of which will cause him to relax, if he does say it. If he says: 
'I seek Refuge with Allah from Satan.' then all is anger will go away." Some body said to him, "The 
Prophet has said, 'Seek refuge with Allah from Satan."' The angry man said, "Am I mad?"
Bukhari:3283 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you, on having sexual relation with his wife, says: 'O Allah! Protect 
me from Satan, and prevent Satan from approaching the offspring you are going to give me,' and if it 
happens that the lady conceives a child, Satan will neither harm it nor be given power over it."
Bukhari:3284 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered a prayer, and (after finishing) he said, "Satan came in front of me trying 
persistently to divert my attention from the prayer, but Allah gave me the strength to over-power 
him."
Bukhari:3285 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the call for the prayer is pronounced, Satan takes to his heels, passing wind 
with noise, When the call for the prayer is finished, he comes back. And when the Iqama is 
pronounced, he again takes to his heels, and after its completion, he returns again to interfere between 
the (praying) person and his heart, saying to him. 'Remember this or that thing.' till the person forgets 
whether he has offered three or four rak`at: so if one forgets whether he has prayed three or four rak`at, 
he should perform two prostrations of Sahu (i.e. forgetfulness).
Bukhari:3286 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When any human being is born. Satan touches him at both sides of the body with 
his two fingers, except Jesus, the son of Mary, whom Satan tried to touch but failed, for he touched 
the placenta-cover instead."
Bukhari:3287 Narrated Alqama:I went to Sham (and asked. "Who is here?"), The people said, "Abu Ad-Darda." Abu Darda said, "Is 
the person whom Allah has protected against Satan, (as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said) amongst you". The subnarrator, 
Mughira said that the person who was given Allah's Refuge through the tongue of the 
Prophet was `Ammar (bin Yasir).
Bukhari:3288 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While the angels talk amidst the clouds about things that are going to happen on 
earth, the devils hear a word of what they say and pour it in the ears of a soothsayer as one pours 
something in a bottle, and they add one hundred lies to that (one word).
Bukhari:3289 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yawning is from Satan and if anyone of you yawns, he should check his yawning 
as much as possible, for if anyone of you (during the act of yawning) should say: 'Ha', Satan will 
laugh at him."
Bukhari:3290 Narrated `Aisha:On the day (of the battle) of Uhud when the pagans were defeated, Satan shouted, "O slaves of Allah! 
Beware of the forces at your back," and on that the Muslims of the front files fought with the Muslims 
of the back files (thinking they were pagans). Hudhaifa looked back to see his father "Al-Yaman," 
(being attacked by the Muslims). He shouted, "O Allah's Slaves! My father! My father!" By Allah, 
they did not stop till they killed him. Hudhaifa said, "May Allah forgive you." `Urwa said that 
Hudhaifa continued to do good (invoking Allah to forgive the killer of his father till he met Allah (i.e. 
died).
Bukhari:3291 Narrated `Aisha:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about one's looking here and there during the prayer. He replied, "It is what Satan 
steals from the prayer of any one of you."
Bukhari:3292 Narrated Abu Qatada:as below.Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A good dream is from Allah, and a bad or evil dream is from Satan; so if anyone of 
you has a bad dream of which he gets afraid, he should spit on his left side and should seek Refuge 
with Allah from its evil, for then it will not harm him."
Bukhari:3293 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If one says one-hundred times in one day: "None has the right to be worshipped 
but Allah, the Alone Who has no partners, to Him belongs Dominion and to Him belong all the 
Praises, and He has power over all things (i.e. Omnipotent)", one will get the reward of manumitting 
ten slaves, and one-hundred good deeds will be written in his account, and one-hundred bad deeds will 
be wiped off or erased from his account, and on that day he will be protected from the morning till 
evening from Satan, and nobody will be superior to him except one who has done more than that 
which he has done."
Bukhari:3294 Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:Once `Umar asked the leave to see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in whose company there were some Quraishi 
women who were talking to him and asking him for more financial support raising their voices. When 
`Umar asked permission to enter the women got up (quickly) hurrying to screen themselves. When 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) admitted `Umar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was smiling, `Umar asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May 
Allah keep you in happiness always." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I am astonished at these women who were with 
me. As soon as they heard your voice, they hastened to screen themselves." `Umar said, "O Allah's 
Apostle! You have more right to be feared by them." Then he addressed (those women) saying, "O 
enemies of your own souls! Do you fear me and not Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" They replied. "Yes, for you are 
a fearful and fierce man as compared with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to `Umar), 
"By Him in Whose Hands my life is, whenever Satan sees you taking a path, he follows a path other 
than yours."
Bukhari:3295 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you rouses from sleep and performs the ablution, he should wash his 
nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out thrice, because Satan has stayed in the upper part of 
his nose all the night."
Bukhari:3296 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Abdullah bin `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Sasaa Ansari:That Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri said to his father. "I see you are fond of sheep and the desert, so when you 
want to pronounce the Adhan, raise your voice with it for whoever will hear the Adhan whether a 
human being, or a Jinn, or anything else, will bear witness, in favor on the Day of Resurrection." Abu 
Sa`id added, "I have heard this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ."
Bukhari:3297 Narrated Ibn `Umar:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon on the pulpit saying, "Kill snakes and kill Dhu-at- 
Tufyatain (i.e. a snake with two white lines on its back) and Al-Abtar (i.e. a snake with short or 
mutilated tail) for they destroy the sight of one's eyes and bring about abortion." (`Abdullah bin `Umar 
further added): Once while I was chasing a snake in order, to kill it, Abu Lubaba called me saying: 
"Don't kill it," I said. "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to kill snakes." He said, "But later on he prohibited 
the killing of snakes living in the houses." (Az-Zuhri said. "Such snakes are called Al-Awamir.")
Bukhari:3298 Narrated Ibn `Umar:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon on the pulpit saying, "Kill snakes and kill Dhu-at- 
Tufyatain (i.e. a snake with two white lines on its back) and Al-Abtar (i.e. a snake with short or 
mutilated tail) for they destroy the sight of one's eyes and bring about abortion." (`Abdullah bin `Umar 
further added): Once while I was chasing a snake in order, to kill it, Abu Lubaba called me saying: 
"Don't kill it," I said. "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to kill snakes." He said, "But later on he prohibited 
the killing of snakes living in the houses." (Az-Zuhri said. "Such snakes are called Al-Awamir.")
Bukhari:3299 Narrated Ibn 'Umar (ra):Abu Lubaba and Zaid bin Khattab saw me.
Bukhari:3300 Narrated Abu Sa`id al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will come a time when the best property of a man will be sheep which he 
will graze on the tops of mountains and the places where rain falls (i.e. pastures) escaping to protect 
his religion from afflictions."
Bukhari:3301 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The main source of disbelief is in the east. Pride and arrogance are 
characteristics of the owners of horses and camels, and those bedouins who are busy with their camels 
and pay no attention to Religion; while modesty and gentleness are the characteristics of the owners of 
sheep."
Bukhari:3302 Narrated `Uqba bin `Umar and Abu Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pointed with his hand towards Yemen and said, "(True) Belief is Yemenite, towards here (i.e. 
the Yemenite, had True Belief and embraced Islam readily). Certainly sternness and mercilessness are the 
qualities of those who are loud and at the base of the tails  of camels, where the two 
horns of Satan will appear. Such qualities belong to the tribes of Rabi`a and Mudar."
Bukhari:3303 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you hear the crowing of roosters, ask for Allah's Blessings for (their crowing 
indicates that) they have seen an angel. And when you hear the braying of donkeys, seek Refuge with 
Allah from Satan for (their braying indicates) that they have seen a Satan."
Bukhari:3304 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When night falls (or it is evening), keep your children close to you for the devils 
spread out at that time. But when an hour of the night elapses, you can let them free. Close the doors 
and mention the Name of Allah, for Satan does not open a closed door."
Bukhari:3305 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A group of Israelites were lost. Nobody knows what they did. But I do not see 
them except that they were cursed and changed into rats, for if you put the milk of a she-camel in front 
of a rat, it will not drink it, but if the milk of a sheep is put in front of it, it will drink it." I told this to 
Ka`b who asked me, "Did you hear it from the Prophet (ﷺ) ?" I said, "Yes." Ka`b asked me the same 
question several times.; I said to Ka`b. "Do I read the Torah? (i.e. I tell you this from the Prophet.)"
Bukhari:3306 Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) called the Salamander, a mischief-doer. I have not heard him ordering that it should be 
killed. Sa`d bin Waqqas claims that the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that it should be killed.
Bukhari:3307 Narrated Um Sharik:That the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered her to kill Salamanders.
Bukhari:3308 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill the snake with two white lines on its back, for it blinds the on-looker and 
causes abortion."
Bukhari:3309 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that a short-tailed or mutilated-tailed snake (i.e. Abtar) should be killed, for it 
blinds the on-looker and causes abortion."
Bukhari:3310 Narrated Abu Mulaika:Ibn `Umar used to kill snakes, but afterwards he forbade their killing and said, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) 
pulled down a wall and saw a cast-off skin of a snake in it. He said, 'Look for the snake. 'They found it 
and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill it." For this reason I used to kill snakes. Later on I met Abu Lubaba who 
told me the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do not kill snakes except the short-tailed or mutilated-tailed snake with two 
white lines on its back, for it causes abortion and makes one blind. So kill it.' "
Bukhari:3311 Narrated Abu Mulaika:Ibn `Umar used to kill snakes, but afterwards he forbade their killing and said, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) 
pulled down a wall and saw a cast-off skin of a snake in it. He said, 'Look for the snake. 'They found it 
and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill it." For this reason I used to kill snakes. Later on I met Abu Lubaba who 
told me the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do not kill snakes except the short-tailed or mutilated-tailed snake with two 
white lines on its back, for it causes abortion and makes one blind. So kill it.' "
Bukhari:3312 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to kill snakes but when Abu Lubaba informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the 
killing of snakes living in houses, he gave up killing them.
Bukhari:3313 Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to kill snakes but when Abu Lubaba informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the 
killing of snakes living in houses, he gave up killing them.
Bukhari:3314 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Five kinds of animals are mischief-doers and can be killed even in the Sanctuary: 
They are the rat the scorpion, the kite (a type of predatory bird), the crow and the rabid dog."
Bukhari:3315 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not sinful of a person in the state of Ihram to kill any of these five animals: 
The scorpion, the rat, the rabid dog, the crow and the kite."
Bukhari:3316 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Cover your utensils and tie your water skins, and close your doors and keep your 
children close to you at night, as the Jinns spread out at such time and snatch things away. When you 
go to bed, put out your lights, for the mischief-doer (i.e. the rat) may drag away the wick of the candle 
and burn the dwellers of the house." Ata said, "The devils." (instead of the Jinns).
Bukhari:3317 Narrated `Abdullah:Once we were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a cave. Surat-al-Mursalat (77) was revealed there, 
and we were learning it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . Suddenly a snake came out of its hole and we rushed 
towards it to kill it, but it hastened and entered its hole before we were able to catch it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
said," It has been saved from your evil and you have been saved from its evil."
Bukhari:3318 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman entered the (Hell) Fire because of a cat which she had tied, neither 
giving it food nor setting it free to eat from the vermin of the earth. "
Bukhari:3319 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Once while a prophet amongst the prophets was taking a rest underneath a tree, 
an ant bit him. He, therefore, ordered that his luggage be taken away from underneath that tree and 
then ordered that the dwelling place of the ants should be set on fire. Allah sent him a revelation:-- 
"Wouldn't it have been sufficient to burn a single ant? (that bit you): (See Page 162, chapter No. 153).
Bukhari:3320 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "If a house fly falls in the drink of anyone of you, he should dip it (in the drink) and take it out, for 
one of its wings has a disease and the other has the cure for the disease."
Bukhari:3321 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A prostitute was forgiven by Allah, because, passing by a panting dog near a 
well and seeing that the dog was about to die of thirst, she took off her shoe, and tying it with her 
head-cover she drew out some water for it. So, Allah forgave her because of that."
Bukhari:3322 Narrated Abu Talha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Angels do not enter a house that has either a dog or a picture in it."
Bukhari:3323 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that the dogs should be killed.
Bukhari:3324 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody keeps a dog, he loses one Qirat (of the reward) of his good deeds 
everyday, except if he keeps it for the purpose of agriculture or for the protection of livestock. "
Bukhari:3325 Narrated Sufyan bin Abi Zuhair Ash-Shani:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody keeps a dog that is neither used for farm work nor 
for guarding the livestock, he will lose one Qirat (of the reward) of his good deeds everyday."
Bukhari:3326 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah created Adam, making him 60 cubits tall. When He created him, He said to 
him, "Go and greet that group of angels, and listen to their reply, for it will be your greeting 
(salutation) and the greeting (salutations of your offspring." So, Adam said (to the angels), As-Salamu 
Alaikum (i.e. Peace be upon you). The angels said, "As-salamu Alaika wa Rahmatu-l-lahi" (i.e. Peace 
and Allah's Mercy be upon you). Thus the angels added to Adam's salutation the expression, 'Wa 
Rahmatu-l-lahi,' Any person who will enter Paradise will resemble Adam (in appearance and figure). 
People have been decreasing in stature since Adam's creation.
Bukhari:3327 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The first group of people who will enter Paradise, will be glittering like the full 
moon and those who will follow them, will glitter like the most brilliant star in the sky. They will not 
urinate, relieve nature, spit, or have any nasal secretions. Their combs will be of gold, and their sweat 
will smell like musk. The aloes-wood will be used in their centers. Their wives will be houris. All of 
them will look alike and will resemble their father Adam (in stature), sixty cubits tall."
Bukhari:3328 Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama:Um Salama said, "Um Sulaim said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah does not refrain from saying the truth! Is 
it obligatory for a woman to take a bath after she gets nocturnal discharge?' He said, 'Yes, if she 
notices the water (i.e. discharge).' Um Salama smiled and said, 'Does a woman get discharge?' Allah's 
Apostle said. 'Then why does a child resemble (its mother)?"
Bukhari:3329 Narrated Anas:When `Abdullah bin Salam heard the arrival of the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina, he came to him and said, "I am 
going to ask you about three things which nobody knows except a prophet: What is the first portent of 
the Hour? What will be the first meal taken by the people of Paradise? Why does a child resemble its 
father, and why does it resemble its maternal uncle" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel has just now told 
me of their answers." `Abdullah said, "He (i.e. Gabriel), from amongst all the angels, is the enemy of 
the Jews." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The first portent of the Hour will be a fire that will bring together the 
people from the east to the west; the first meal of the people of Paradise will be Extra-lobe (caudate 
lobe) of fish-liver. As for the resemblance of the child to its parents: If a man has sexual intercourse 
with his wife and gets discharge first, the child will resemble the father, and if the woman gets 
discharge first, the child will resemble her." On that `Abdullah bin Salam said, "I testify that you are 
the Messenger of Allah." `Abdullah bin Salam further said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The Jews are liars, and if 
they should come to know about my conversion to Islam before you ask them (about me), they would 
tell a lie about me." The Jews came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and `Abdullah went inside the house. Allah's 
Apostle asked (the Jews), "What kind of man is `Abdullah bin Salam amongst you?" They replied, 
"He is the most learned person amongst us, and the best amongst us, and the son of the best amongst 
us." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "What do you think if he embraces Islam (will you do as he does)?" The 
Jews said, "May Allah save him from it." Then `Abdullah bin Salam came out in front of them saying, 
"I testify that None has the right to be worshipped but Allah and that Muhammad is the Apostle of 
Allah." Thereupon they said, "He is the evilest among us, and the son of the evilest amongst us," and 
continued talking badly of him.
Bukhari:3330 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But for the Israelis, meat would not decay and but for Eve, wives would never 
betray their husbands."
Bukhari:3331 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah 's Apostle said, "Treat women nicely, for a women is created from a rib, and the most curved 
portion of the rib is its upper portion, so, if you should try to straighten it, it will break, but if you 
leave it as it is, it will remain crooked. So treat women nicely."
Bukhari:3332 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the true and truly inspired said, "(as regards your creation), every one of you is 
collected in the womb of his mother for the first forty days, and then he becomes a clot for another 
forty days, and then a piece of flesh for another forty days. Then Allah sends an angel to write four 
items: He writes his deeds, time of his death, means of his livelihood, and whether he will be 
wretched or blessed (in religion). Then the soul is breathed into his body. So a man may do deeds 
characteristic of the people of the (Hell) Fire, so much so that there is only the distance of a cubit 
between him and it, and then what has been written (by the angel) surpasses, and so he starts doing 
deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise and enters Paradise. Similarly, a person may do deeds 
characteristic of the people of Paradise, so much so that there is only the distance of a cubit between 
him and it, and then what has been written (by the angel) surpasses, and he starts doing deeds of the 
people of the (Hell) Fire and enters the (Hell) Fire."
Bukhari:3333 Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has appointed an angel in the womb, and the angel says, 'O Lord! A drop of 
discharge (i.e. of semen), O Lord! a clot, O Lord! a piece of flesh.' And then, if Allah wishes to 
complete the child's creation, the angel will say. 'O Lord! A male or a female? O Lord! wretched or 
blessed (in religion)? What will his livelihood be? What will his age be?' The angel writes all this 
while the child is in the womb of its mother."
Bukhari:3334 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to that person of the (Hell) Fire who will receive the least 
punishment, 'If you had everything on the earth, would you give it as a ransom to free yourself (i.e. 
save yourself from this Fire)?' He will say, 'Yes.' Then Allah will say, 'While you were in the 
backbone of Adam, I asked you much less than this, i.e. not to worship others besides Me, but you 
insisted on worshipping others besides me.' "
Bukhari:3335 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever a person is murdered unjustly, there is a share from the burden of the 
crime on the first son of Adam for he was the first to start the tradition of murdering."
Bukhari:3336 Narrated Aishah (ra):I heard the Prophet (ﷺ), "Souls are like recruited troops: Those who are like qualities are inclined to each other, but those who have dissimilar qualities, differ."
Bukhari:3337 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood amongst the people, glorified and praised Allah as He deserved and then 
mentioned the Dajjal saying, "l warn you against him (i.e. the Dajjal) and there was no prophet but 
warned his nation against him. No doubt, Noah warned his nation against him but I tell you about him 
something of which no prophet told his nation before me. You should know that he is one-eyed, and 
Allah is not one-eyed."
Bukhari:3338 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Shall I not tell you about the Dajjal a story of which no prophet told his nation? 
The Dajjall is one-eyed and will bring with him what will resemble Hell and Paradise, and what he 
will call Paradise will be actually Hell; so I warn you (against him) as Noah warned his nation against 
him."
Bukhari:3339 Narrated Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Noah and his nation will come (on the Day of Resurrection and Allah will ask 
(Noah), "Did you convey (the Message)?' He will reply, 'Yes, O my Lord!' Then Allah will ask Noah's 
nation, 'Did Noah convey My Message to you?' They will reply, 'No, no prophet came to us.' Then 
Allah will ask Noah, 'Who will stand a witness for you?' He will reply, 'Muhammad and his followers 
(will stand witness for me).' So, I and my followers will stand as witnesses for him (that he conveyed 
Allah's Message)." That is, (the interpretation) of the Statement of Allah: "Thus we have made you a 
just and the best nation that you might be witnesses Over mankind .." (2.143)
Bukhari:3340 Narrated Abu Huraira:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) at a banquet and a cooked (mutton) forearm was set before 
him, and he used to like it. He ate a morsel of it and said, "I will be the chief of all the people on the 
Day of Resurrection. Do you know how Allah will gather all the first and the last (people) in one level 
place where an observer will be able to see (all) of them and they will be able to hear the announcer, 
and the sun will come near to them. Some People will say: Don't you see, in what condition you are 
and the state to which you have reached? Why don't you look for a person who can intercede for you 
with your Lord? Some people will say: Appeal to your father, Adam.' They will go to him and say: 'O 
Adam! You are the father of all mankind, and Allah created you with His Own Hands, and ordered the 
angels to prostrate for you, and made you live in Paradise. Will you not intercede for us with your 
Lord? Don't you see in what (miserable) state we are, and to what condition we have reached?' On that 
Adam will reply, 'My Lord is so angry as He has never been before and will never be in the future; 
(besides), He forbade me (to eat from) the tree, but I disobeyed (Him), (I am worried about) myself! 
Myself! Go to somebody else; go to Noah.' They will go to Noah and say; 'O Noah! You are the first 
amongst the messengers of Allah to the people of the earth, and Allah named you a thankful slave. 
Don't you see in what a (miserable) state we are and to what condition we have reached? Will you not 
intercede for us with your Lord? Noah will reply: 'Today my Lord has become so angry as he had 
never been before and will never be in the future Myself! Myself! Go to the Prophet (Muhammad). 
The people will come to me, and I will prostrate myself underneath Allah's Throne. Then I will be 
addressed: 'O Muhammad! Raise your head; intercede, for your intercession will be accepted, and ask 
(for anything). for you will be given. "
Bukhari:3341 Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited the following Verse) in the usual tone: 'Fahal-Min-Muddalkir.' (54.15)
Bukhari:3342 Narrated Anas (ra):Abu Dhar (ra) used to say that Allah's  Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was at Makkah, the roof of my house was opened and Jibril descended, opened my chest, and washed it with Zamzam water. Then he brought a golden tray full of wisdom and faith, and having poured its contents into my chest, he closed it. Then he took my hand and ascended with me to the heaven. When Jibril reached the nearest heaven, he said to the gatekeeper of the heaven, 'Open (the gate).' The gatekeeper asked, 'who is it?' Jibril answered, 'Jibril'. He asked, 'Is there anyone with you?' Jibril replied, 'Muhammad (ﷺ) is with me.' He asked, 'Has he been called?', Jibril said, 'Yes'. So, the gate was opened and we went over the nearest heaven, and there we saw a man sitting with Aswida (a large number of people) of his right and Aswida on his left. When he looked towards his right, he laughed and when he looked towards his left he wept. He said (to me), 'Welcome, O pious Prophet and pious son'. I said, 'Who is this man O Jibril?' Jibril replied, 'He is Adam, and the people on his right and left are the souls of his offspring. Those on the right are the people of Paradise, and those on the left are the people of the (Hell) Fire. So, when he looks to the right, he laughs, and when he looks to the left he weeps.' Then Jibril ascended with me till he reached the second heaven and said to the gatekeeper, 'Open (the gate).' The gatekeeper said to him the same as the gatekeeper of the first heaven has said, and he opened the gate."

Anas added: Abu Dhar mentioned that Prophet (ﷺ) met Idris, Musa (Moses), 'Isa (Jesus) and Ibrahim (Abraham) over the heavens, but he did not specify their places (i.e., on which heavens each of them was), but he mentioned that he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) had met Adam on the nearest heaven, and Ibrahim on the sixth. Anas said, "When Jibril and the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Idris, the latter said, 'Welcome, O pious Prophet and pious brother!' the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, 'Who is he?' Jibril said, 'He is Idris.' " The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then I passed by Musa who said, 'Welcome, O pious Prophet  and pious brother!' I said, 'Who is he?' Jibril said, 'He is Musa.' Then I passed by 'Isa who said, 'Welcome, O pious Prophet and pious brother!' I said, 'Who is he?' He replied, 'He is 'Isa.' Then I passed by the Prophet (ﷺ) Ibrahim who said, 'Welcome, O pious Prophet and pious son!' I said, 'Who is he?' Jibril replied, 'He is Ibrahim'."

Narrated Ibn 'Abbas and Abu Haiyya Al-Ansari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then Jibril ascended with me to a place where I heard the creaking of pens." Ibn Hazm and Anas bin Malik state the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah enjoined fifty Salat (prayers) on me. When I returned with this order of Allah, I passed by Musa who asked me, 'What has Allah enjoined on your followers?' I replied, 'He has enjoined fifty Salat (prayers) on them.' On the Musa said to me, 'Go back to your Lord (and appeal for reduction), for your followers will not be able to bear it.' So, I returned to my Lord and asked for some reduction, and He reduced it to half. When I passed by Musa again and informed him about it, he once more said to me, 'Go back to your Lord, for your followers will not be able to bear it.' So, I returned to my Lord similarly as before, and half of it was reduced. I again passed by Musa and he said to me, 'Go back to your Lord, for your followers will not be able to bear it.' I again returned to my Lord and He said, 'These are five (Salat-prayers) and they are all (equal to) fifty (in reward), for My Word does not change.' I returned to Musa, he again told me to return to my Lord (for further reduction) but I said to him 'I feel shy of asking my Lord now.' Then Jibril took me till we reached Sidrat-ul-Muntaha (i.e., lote tree of utmost boundary) which was shrouded in colors indescribable. Then I was admitted into Paradise where I found small tents (made) of pearls and its earth was musk (a kind of perfume)."
Bukhari:3343 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been made victorious with As-Saba (i.e. an easterly wind) and the people of 'Ad were destroyed by Ad-Dabur (i.e. a westerly wind)."
Bukhari:3344 Narrated Abu Sa`id:`Ali sent a piece of gold to the Prophet (ﷺ) who distributed it among four persons: Al-Aqra' bin H`Abis Al-Hanzali from the tribe of Mujashi, 'Uyaina bin Badr Al-Fazari, Zaid at-Ta'i who belonged to (the tribe of) Bani Nahban, and 'Alqama bin Ulatha Al-`Amir who belonged to (the tribe of) Bani Kilab. So the Quraish and the Ansar became angry and said, "He (i.e. the Prophet, ) gives the chief of Najd and does not give us." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I give them) so as to attract their hearts (to Islam)." Then a man with sunken eyes, prominent checks, a raised forehead, a thick beard and a shaven head, came (in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) and said, "Be afraid of Allah, O Muhammad!" The Prophet (ﷺ) ' said "Who would obey Allah if I disobeyed Him? (Is it fair that) Allah has trusted all the people of the earth to me while, you do not trust me?" Somebody who, I think was Khalid bin Al-Walid, requested the Prophet (ﷺ) to let him chop that man's head off, but he prevented him. When the man left, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Among the off-spring of this man will be some who will recite the Qur'an but the Qur'an will not reach beyond their throats (i.e. they will recite like parrots and will not understand it nor act on it), and they will renegade from the religion as an arrow goes through the game's body. They will kill the Muslims but will not disturb the idolaters. If I should live up to their time' I will kill them as the people of 'Ad were killed (i.e. I will kill all of them)."
Bukhari:3345 Narrated `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting: "Fahal Min Muddakir." (See Hadith No. 557)
Bukhari:3346 Narrated Zainab bint Jahsh:That the Prophet (ﷺ) once came to her in a state of fear and said, "None has the right to be worshipped but 
Allah. Woe unto the Arabs from a danger that has come near. An opening has been made in the wall 
of Gog and Magog like this," making a circle with his thumb and index finger. Zainab bint Jahsh said, 
"O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we be destroyed even though there are pious persons among us?" He said, 
"Yes, when the evil person will increase."
Bukhari:3347 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has made an opening in the wall of the Gog and Magog (people) like this, 
and he made with his hand (with the help of his fingers).
Bukhari:3348 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say (on the Day of Resurrection), 'O Adam.' Adam will reply, 'Labbaik 
wa Sa`daik', and all the good is in Your Hand.' Allah will say: 'Bring out the people of the fire.' Adam 
will say: 'O Allah! How many are the people of the Fire?' Allah will reply: 'From every one thousand, 
take out nine-hundred-and ninety-nine.' At that time children will become hoary headed, every 
pregnant female will have a miscarriage, and one will see mankind as drunken, yet they will not be 
drunken, but dreadful will be the Wrath of Allah." The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "O Allah's 
Apostle! Who is that (excepted) one?" He said, "Rejoice with glad tidings; one person will be from 
you and one-thousand will be from Gog and Magog." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, hope that you will be one-fourth of the 
people of Paradise." We shouted, "Allahu Akbar!" He added, "I hope that you will be one-third of the 
people of Paradise." We shouted, "Allahu Akbar!" He said, "I hope that you will be half of the people 
of Paradise." We shouted, "Allahu Akbar!" He further said, "You (Muslims) (compared with non 
Muslims) are like a black hair in the skin of a white ox or like a white hair in the skin of a black ox 
(i.e. your number is very small as compared with theirs).
Bukhari:3349 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be gathered (on the Day of Judgment), bare-footed, naked and not 
circumcised." He then recited:--'As We began the first creation, We, shall repeat it: A Promise We 
have undertaken: Truly we shall do it.' (21.104) He added, "The first to be dressed on the Day of 
Resurrection, will be Abraham, and some of my companions will be taken towards the left side (i.e. to 
the (Hell) Fire), and I will say: 'My companions! My companions!' It will be said: 'They renegade 
from Islam after you left them.' Then I will say as the Pious slave of Allah (i.e. Jesus) said. 'And I was 
a witness Over them while I dwelt amongst them. When You took me up You were the Watcher over 
them, And You are a witness to all things. If You punish them. They are Your slaves And if You 
forgive them, Verily you, only You are the All-Mighty, the All-Wise." (5.120-121)
Bukhari:3350 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection Abraham will meet his father Azar whose face will be 
dark and covered with dust.(The Prophet (ﷺ) Abraham will say to him): 'Didn't I tell you not to disobey 
me?' His father will reply: 'Today I will not disobey you.' 'Abraham will say: 'O Lord! You promised 
me not to disgrace me on the Day of Resurrection; and what will be more disgraceful to me than 
cursing and dishonoring my father?' Then Allah will say (to him):' 'I have forbidden Paradise for the 
disbelievers." Then he will be addressed, 'O Abraham! Look! What is underneath your feet?' He will 
look and there he will see a Dhabh (an animal,) blood-stained, which will be caught by the legs and 
thrown in the (Hell) Fire."
Bukhari:3351 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba and found in it the pictures of (Prophet) Abraham and Mary. On that 
he said' "What is the matter with them ( i.e. Quraish)? They have already heard that angels do not 
enter a house in which there are pictures; yet this is the picture of Abraham. And why is he depicted as 
practicing divination by arrows?"
Bukhari:3352 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw pictures in the Ka`ba, he did not enter it till he ordered them to be erased. 
When he saw (the pictures of Abraham and Ishmael carrying the arrows of divination, he said, "May 
Allah curse them (i.e. the Quraish)! By Allah, neither Abraham nor Ishmael practiced divination by 
arrows."
Bukhari:3353 Narrated Abu Huraira:The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is the most honorable amongst the people (in Allah's 
Sight)?" He said, "The most righteous amongst them." They said, "We do not ask you, about this. " He 
said, "Then Joseph, Allah's Prophet, the son of Allah's Prophet, The son of Allah's Prophet the son of 
Allah's Khalil (i.e. Abraham)." They said, "We do not want to ask about this," He said' "Then you 
want to ask about the descent of the Arabs. Those who were the best in the pre-lslamic period of 
ignorance will be the best in Islam provided they comprehend the religious knowledge."
Bukhari:3354 Narrated Samura:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Two persons came to me at night (in dream) (and took me along with them). 
We passed by a tall man who was so tall that I was not able to see his head and that person was 
Abraham."
Bukhari:3355 Narrated Mujahid:That when the people mentioned before Ibn `Abbas that the Dajjal would have the word Kafir, (i.e. 
unbeliever) or the letters Kafir (the root of the Arabic verb 'disbelieve') written on his forehead, I 
heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "I did not hear this, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If you want to see Abraham, then 
look at your companion (i.e. the Prophet) but Moses was a curly-haired, brown man (who used to 
ride) a red camel, the reins of which was made of fires of date-palms. As if I were now looking down 
a valley."
Bukhari:3356 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abraham did his circumcision with an adze* at the age of eighty."Narrated Abu Az-Zinad:(as above) With an adze*.* a type of cured blade axe.
Bukhari:3357 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abraham did not tell a lie except on three occasions."
Bukhari:3358 Narrated Abu Huraira:Abraham did not tell a lie except on three occasion. Twice for the Sake of Allah when he said, "I am 
sick," and he said, "(I have not done this but) the big idol has done it." The (third was) that while 
Abraham and Sarah (his wife) were going (on a journey) they passed by (the territory of) a tyrant. 
Someone said to the tyrant, "This man (i.e. Abraham) is accompanied by a very charming lady." So, 
he sent for Abraham and asked him about Sarah saying, "Who is this lady?" Abraham said, "She is my 
sister." Abraham went to Sarah and said, "O Sarah! There are no believers on the surface of the earth 
except you and I. This man asked me about you and I have told him that you are my sister, so don't 
contradict my statement." The tyrant then called Sarah and when she went to him, he tried to take hold 
of her with his hand, but (his hand got stiff and) he was confounded. He asked Sarah. "Pray to Allah 
for me, and I shall not harm you." So Sarah asked Allah to cure him and he got cured. He tried to take 
hold of her for the second time, but (his hand got as stiff as or stiffer than before and) was more 
confounded. He again requested Sarah, "Pray to Allah for me, and I will not harm you." Sarah asked 
Allah again and he became alright. He then called one of his guards (who had brought her) and said, 
"You have not brought me a human being but have brought me a devil." The tyrant then gave Hajar as 
a girl-servant to Sarah. Sarah came back (to Abraham) while he was praying. Abraham, gesturing with 
his hand, asked, "What has happened?" She replied, "Allah has spoiled the evil plot of the infidel (or 
immoral person) and gave me Hajar for service." (Abu Huraira then addressed his listeners saying, 
"That (Hajar) was your mother, O Bani Ma-is-Sama (i.e. the Arabs, the descendants of Ishmael, 
Hajar's son).
Bukhari:3359 Narrated Um Sharik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that the salamander should be killed and said, "It (i.e. the salamander) blew 
(the fire) on Abraham."
Bukhari:3360 Narrated `Abdullah:When the Verse:--"It is those who believe and do not confuse their belief with wrong ( i.e. joining 
others in worship with Allah" (6.83) was revealed, we said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is there amongst 
us who has not done wrong to himself?" He replied, "It is not as you say, for 'wrong' in the Verse and 
'do not confuse their belief, with wrong means 'SHIRK' (i.e. joining others in worship with Allah). 
Haven't you heard Luqman's saying to his son, 'O my son! Join not others in worship with Allah, 
verily joining others in worship with Allah is a great wrong indeed." (31.13)
Bukhari:3361 Narrated Abu Huraira:One day some meat was given to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "On the Day of Resurrection Allah will 
gather all the first and the last (people) in one plain, and the voice of the announcer will reach all of 
them, and one will be able to see them all, and the sun will come closer to them." (The narrator then 
mentioned the narration of intercession): "The people will go to Abraham and say: 'You are Allah's 
Prophet and His Khalil on the earth. Will you intercede for us with your Lord?' Abraham will then 
remember his lies and say: 'Myself! Myself! Go to Moses."
Bukhari:3362 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on the mother of Ishmael! Had she not hastened (to 
fill her water-skin with water from the Zamzam well). Zamzam would have been a stream flowing on 
the surface of the earth." Ibn `Abbas further added, "(The Prophet) Abraham brought Ishmael and his 
mother (to Mecca) and she was suckling Ishmael and she had a water-skin with her.'
Bukhari:3363 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on the mother of Ishmael! Had she not hastened (to 
fill her water-skin with water from the Zamzam well). Zamzam would have been a stream flowing on 
the surface of the earth." Ibn `Abbas further added, "(The Prophet) Abraham brought Ishmael and his 
mother (to Mecca) and she was suckling Ishmael and she had a water-skin with her.'
Bukhari:3364 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The first lady to use a girdle was the mother of Ishmael. She used a girdle so that she might hide her 
tracks from Sarah. Abraham brought her and her son Ishmael while she was suckling him, to a place 
near the Ka`ba under a tree on the spot of Zamzam, at the highest place in the mosque. During those 
days there was nobody in Mecca, nor was there any water So he made them sit over there and placed 
near them a leather bag containing some dates, and a small water-skin containing some water, and set 
out homeward. Ishmael's mother followed him saying, "O Abraham! Where are you going, leaving us 
in this valley where there is no person whose company we may enjoy, nor is there anything (to 
enjoy)?" She repeated that to him many times, but he did not look back at her Then she asked him, 
"Has Allah ordered you to do so?" He said, "Yes." She said, "Then He will not neglect us," and 
returned while Abraham proceeded onwards, and on reaching the Thaniya where they could not see 
him, he faced the Ka`ba, and raising both hands, invoked Allah saying the following prayers: 
'O our Lord! I have made some of my offspring dwell in a valley without cultivation, by Your Sacred 
House (Ka`ba at Mecca) in order, O our Lord, that they may offer prayer perfectly. So fill some hearts 
among men with love towards them, and (O Allah) provide them with fruits, so that they may give 
thanks.' (14.37) Ishmael's mother went on suckling Ishmael and drinking from the water (she had). 
When the water in the water-skin had all been used up, she became thirsty and her child also became 
thirsty. She started looking at him (i.e. Ishmael) tossing in agony; She left him, for she could not 
endure looking at him, and found that the mountain of Safa was the nearest mountain to her on that 
land. She stood on it and started looking at the valley keenly so that she might see somebody, but she 
could not see anybody. Then she descended from Safa and when she reached the valley, she tucked up 
her robe and ran in the valley like a person in distress and trouble, till she crossed the valley and 
reached the Marwa mountain where she stood and started looking, expecting to see somebody, but she 
could not see anybody. She repeated that (running between Safa and Marwa) seven times." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is the source of the tradition of the walking of people between them (i.e. Safa 
and Marwa). When she reached the Marwa (for the last time) she heard a voice and she asked herself 
to be quiet and listened attentively. She heard the voice again and said, 'O, (whoever you may be)! 
You have made me hear your voice; have you got something to help me?" And behold! She saw an 
angel at the place of Zamzam, digging the earth with his heel (or his wing), till water flowed from that 
place. She started to make something like a basin around it, using her hand in this way, and started 
filling her water-skin with water with her hands, and the water was flowing out after she had scooped 
some of it." 
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "May Allah bestow Mercy on Ishmael's mother! Had she let the Zamzam (flow 
without trying to control it) (or had she not scooped from that water) (to fill her water-skin), Zamzam 
would have been a stream flowing on the surface of the earth." The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "Then she 
drank (water) and suckled her child. The angel said to her, 'Don't be afraid of being neglected, for this 
is the House of Allah which will be built by this boy and his father, and Allah never neglects His 
people.' The House (i.e. Ka`ba) at that time was on a high place resembling a hillock, and when 
torrents came, they flowed to its right and left. She lived in that way till some people from the tribe of 
Jurhum or a family from Jurhum passed by her and her child, as they (i.e. the Jurhum people) were 
coming through the way of Kada'. They landed in the lower part of Mecca where they saw a bird that 
had the habit of flying around water and not leaving it. They said, 'This bird must be flying around 
water, though we know that there is no water in this valley.' They sent one or two messengers who 
discovered the source of water, and returned to inform them of the water. So, they all came (towards 
the water)." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Ishmael's mother was sitting near the water. They asked her, 'Do you 
allow us to stay with you?" She replied, 'Yes, but you will have no right to possess the water.' They 
agreed to that." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "Ishmael's mother was pleased with the whole situation as 
she used to love to enjoy the company of the people. So, they settled there, and later on they sent for 
their families who came and settled with them so that some families became permanent residents 
there. The child (i.e. Ishmael) grew up and learnt Arabic from them and (his virtues) caused them to 
love and admire him as he grew up, and when he reached the age of puberty they made him marry a 
woman from amongst them. 
After Ishmael's mother had died, Abraham came after Ishmael's marriage in order to see his family 
that he had left before, but he did not find Ishmael there. When he asked Ishmael's wife about him, she 
replied, 'He has gone in search of our livelihood.' Then he asked her about their way of living and their 
condition, and she replied, 'We are living in misery; we are living in hardship and destitution,' 
complaining to him. He said, 'When your husband returns, convey my salutation to him and tell him to 
change the threshold of the gate (of his house).' When Ishmael came, he seemed to have felt 
something unusual, so he asked his wife, 'Has anyone visited you?' She replied, 'Yes, an old man of 
so-and-so description came and asked me about you and I informed him, and he asked about our state 
of living, and I told him that we were living in a hardship and poverty.' On that Ishmael said, 'Did he 
advise you anything?' She replied, 'Yes, he told me to convey his salutation to you and to tell you to 
change the threshold of your gate.' Ishmael said, 'It was my father, and he has ordered me to divorce 
you. Go back to your family.' So, Ishmael divorced her and married another woman from amongst 
them (i.e. Jurhum). 
Then Abraham stayed away from them for a period as long as Allah wished and called on them again 
but did not find Ishmael. So he came to Ishmael's wife and asked her about Ishmael. She said, 'He has 
gone in search of our livelihood.' Abraham asked her, 'How are you getting on?' asking her about their 
sustenance and living. She replied, 'We are prosperous and well-off (i.e. we have everything in 
abundance).' Then she thanked Allah' Abraham said, 'What kind of food do you eat?' She said. 'Meat.' 
He said, 'What do you drink?' She said, 'Water." He said, "O Allah! Bless their meat and water." The 
Prophet added, "At that time they did not have grain, and if they had grain, he would have also 
invoked Allah to bless it." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If somebody has only these two things as his 
sustenance, his health and disposition will be badly affected, unless he lives in Mecca." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
added," Then Abraham said Ishmael's wife, "When your husband comes, give my regards to him and 
tell him that he should keep firm the threshold of his gate.' When Ishmael came back, he asked his 
wife, 'Did anyone call on you?' She replied, 'Yes, a good-looking old man came to me,' so she praised 
him and added. 'He asked about you, and I informed him, and he asked about our livelihood and I told 
him that we were in a good condition.' Ishmael asked her, 'Did he give you any piece of advice?' She 
said, 'Yes, he told me to give his regards to you and ordered that you should keep firm the threshold of 
your gate.' On that Ishmael said, 'It was my father, and you are the threshold (of the gate). He has 
ordered me to keep you with me.' 
Then Abraham stayed away from them for a period as long as Allah wished, and called on them 
afterwards. He saw Ishmael under a tree near Zamzam, sharpening his arrows. When he saw 
Abraham, he rose up to welcome him (and they greeted each other as a father does with his son or a 
son does with his father). Abraham said, 'O Ishmael! Allah has given me an order.' Ishmael said, 'Do 
what your Lord has ordered you to do.' Abraham asked, 'Will you help me?' Ishmael said, 'I will help 
you.' Abraham said, Allah has ordered me to build a house here,' pointing to a hillock higher than the 
land surrounding it." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then they raised the foundations of the House (i.e. the 
Ka`ba). Ishmael brought the stones and Abraham was building, and when the walls became high, 
Ishmael brought this stone and put it for Abraham who stood over it and carried on building, while 
Ishmael was handing him the stones, and both of them were saying, 'O our Lord! Accept (this service) 
from us, Verily, You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing.' The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then both of them 
went on building and going round the Ka`ba saying: O our Lord ! Accept (this service) from us, 
Verily, You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing." (2.127)
Bukhari:3365 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When Abraham had differences with his wife), (because of her jealousy of Hajar, Ishmael's mother), 
he took Ishmael and his mother and went away. They had a water-skin with them containing some 
water, Ishmael's mother used to drink water from the water-skin so that her milk would increase for 
her child. When Abraham reached Mecca, he made her sit under a tree and afterwards returned home. 
Ishmael's mother followed him, and when they reached Kada', she called him from behind, 'O 
Abraham! To whom are you leaving us?' He replied, '(I am leaving you) to Allah's (Care).' 
She said, 'I am satisfied to be with Allah.' She returned to her place and started drinking water from 
the water-skin, and her milk increased for her child. When the water had all been used up, she said to 
herself, 'I'd better go and look so that I may see somebody.' She ascended the Safa mountain and 
looked, hoping to see somebody, but in vain. When she came down to the valley, she ran till she 
reached the Marwa mountain. She ran to and fro (between the two mountains) many times. They she 
said to herself, 'i'd better go and see the state of the child,' she went and found it in a state of one on 
the point of dying. She could not endure to watch it dying and said (to herself), 'If I go and look, I may 
find somebody.' 
She went and ascended the Safa mountain and looked for a long while but could not find anybody. 
Thus she completed seven rounds (of running) between Safa and Marwa. Again she said (to herself), 
'I'd better go back and see the state of the child.' But suddenly she heard a voice, and she said to that 
strange voice, 'Help us if you can offer any help.' Lo! It was Gabriel (who had made the voice). 
Gabriel hit the earth with his heel like this (Ibn `Abbas hit the earth with his heel to Illustrate it), and 
so the water gushed out. Ishmael's mother was astonished and started digging. (Abu Al-Qasim) (i.e. 
the Prophet) said, "If she had left the water, (flow naturally without her intervention), it would have 
been flowing on the surface of the earth.") Ishmael's mother started drinking from the water and her 
milk increased for her child . Afterwards some people of the tribe of Jurhum, while passing through 
the bottom of the valley, saw some birds, and that astonished them, and they said, 'Birds can only be 
found at a place where there is water.' 
They sent a messenger who searched the place and found the water, and returned to inform them about 
it. Then they all went to her and said, 'O ishmael's mother! Will you allow us to be with you (or dwell 
with you)?' (And thus they stayed there.) Later on her boy reached the age of puberty and married a 
lady from them. Then an idea occurred to Abraham which he disclosed to his wife (Sarah), 'I want to 
call on my dependents I left (at Mecca).' When he went there, he greeted (Ishmael's wife) and said, 
'Where is Ishmael?' She replied, 'He has gone out hunting.' Abraham said (to her), 'When he comes, 
tell him to change the threshold of his gate.' When he came, she told him the same whereupon Ishmael 
said to her, 'You are the threshold, so go to your family (i.e. you are divorced).' Again Abraham 
thought of visiting his dependents whom he had left (at Mecca), and he told his wife (Sarah) of his 
intentions. 
Abraham came to Ishmael's house and asked. "Where is Ishmael?" Ishmael's wife replied, "He has 
gone out hunting," and added, "Will you stay (for some time) and have something to eat and drink?' 
Abraham asked, 'What is your food and what is your drink?' She replied, 'Our food is meat and our 
drink is water.' He said, 'O Allah! Bless their meals and their drink." Abu Al-Qa-sim (i.e. Prophet) 
said, "Because of Abraham's invocation there are blessings (in Mecca)." Once more Abraham thought 
of visiting his family he had left (at Mecca), so he told his wife (Sarah) of his decision. He went and 
found Ishmael behind the Zamzam well, mending his arrows. He said, "O Ishmael, Your Lord has 
ordered me to build a house for Him." Ishmael said, "Obey (the order of) your Lord." 
Abraham said, "Allah has also ordered me that you should help me therein." Ishmael said, "Then I will 
do." So, both of them rose and Abraham started building (the Ka`ba) while Ishmael went on handing 
him the stones, and both of them were saying, "O our Lord ! Accept (this service) from us, Verily, 
You are the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing." (2.127). When the building became high and the old man 
(i.e. Abraham) could no longer lift the stones (to such a high position), he stood over the stone of Al- 
Maqam and Ishmael carried on handing him the stones, and both of them were saying, 'O our Lord! 
Accept (this service) from us, Verily You are All-Hearing, All-Knowing." (2.127)
Bukhari:3366 Narrated Abu Dhar:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which mosque was first built on the surface of the earth?" He said, "Al- 
Masjid-ul-,Haram (in Mecca)." I said, "Which was built next?" He replied "The mosque of Al-Aqsa ( 
in Jerusalem) ." I said, "What was the period of construction between the two?" He said, "Forty 
years." He added, "Wherever (you may be, and) the prayer time becomes due, perform the prayer 
there, for the best thing is to do so (i.e. to offer the prayers in time).
Bukhari:3367 Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the mountain of Uhud came in the sight of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said. "This is a mountain that 
loves us and is loved by us. O Allah! Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary, and I make (the area) in 
between these two mountains (of Medina) a sanctuary."
Bukhari:3368 Narrated `Aisha:(The wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to her). "Don't you see that when your folk built the 
Ka`ba, they did not build it on all the foundations built by Abraham?" I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why 
don't we rebuild it on the foundations of Abraham?" He said. "But for the fact that your folk have 
recently given up infidelity (I would have done so). 
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Aisha must have heard this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for I see that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
used not to touch the two corners facing Al-Hijr only because the House had not been built on the 
foundations of Abraham.''
Bukhari:3369 Narrated Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi:The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How shall we (ask Allah to) send blessings on you?" Allah's 
Apostle replied, "Say: O Allah! Send Your Mercy on Muhammad and on his wives and on his off 
spring, as You sent Your Mercy on Abraham's family; and send Your Blessings on Muhammad and 
on his offspring, as You sent Your Blessings on Abraham's family, for You are the Most Praiseworthy, 
the Most Glorious."
Bukhari:3370 Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila:Ka`b bin Ujrah met me and said, "Shall I not give you a present I got from the Prophet?" `Abdur- 
Rahman said, "Yes, give it to me." I said, "We asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How 
should one (ask Allah to) send blessings on you, the members of the family, for Allah has taught us 
how to salute you (in the prayer)?' He said, 'Say: O Allah! Send Your Mercy on Muhammad and on 
the family of Muhammad, as You sent Your Mercy on Abraham and on the family of Abraham, for 
You are the Most Praise-worthy, the Most Glorious. O Allah! Send Your Blessings on Muhammad 
and the family of Muhammad, as You sent your Blessings on Abraham and on the family of Abraham, 
for You are the Most Praise-worthy, the Most Glorious.' "
Bukhari:3371 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to seek Refuge with Allah for Al-Hasan and Al-Husain and say: "Your forefather 
(i.e. Abraham) used to seek Refuge with Allah for Ishmael and Isaac by reciting the following: 'O 
Allah! I seek Refuge with Your Perfect Words from every devil and from poisonous pests and from 
every evil, harmful, envious eye.' "
Bukhari:3372 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We are more liable to be in doubt than Abraham when he said, 'My Lord! Show 
me how You give life to the dead." . He (i.e. Allah) slid: 'Don't you believe then?' He (i.e. Abraham) 
said: "Yes, but (I ask) in order to be stronger in Faith." (2.260) And may Allah send His Mercy on 
Lot! He wished to have a powerful support. If I were to stay in prison for such a long time as Joseph 
did I would have accepted the offer (of freedom without insisting on having my guiltless less 
declared).
Bukhari:3373 Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by some persons of the tribe of Aslam practicing archery (i.e. the throwing of 
arrows) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O offspring of Ishmael! Practice archery (i.e. arrow throwing) as your 
father was a great archer (i.e. arrow-thrower). I am with (on the side of) the son of so-and-so-." 
Hearing that, one of the two teams stopped throwing. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked them, ' Why are you not 
throwing?" They replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How shall we throw when you are with the opposite 
team?" He said, "Throw, for I am with you all."
Bukhari:3374 Narrated Abu Huraira:Some people asked the Prophet: "Who is the most honorable amongst the people?" He replied, "The 
most honorable among them is the one who is the most Allah-fearing." They said, "O Allah's Prophet! 
We do not ask about this." He said, "Then the most honorable person is Joseph, Allah's Prophet, the 
son of Allah's Prophet, the son of Allah's Prophet, the son of Allah's Khalil." They said, "We do not 
ask about this." He said, "Then you want to ask me about the Arabs' descent?" They said, "Yes." He 
said, "Those who were best in the pre-lslamic period, are the best in Islam, if they comprehend (the 
religious knowledge).
Bukhari:3375 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah forgive Lot: He wanted to have a powerful support."
Bukhari:3376 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited:-- 'Hal-min-Muddakir' (54.15) (Is there any that will remember) (and avoid evil).
Bukhari:3377 Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) while referring to the person who had cut the legs of the she-camel (of the Prophet (ﷺ) 
Salih), saying, "The man who was appointed for doing this job, was a man of honor and power in his 
nation like Abu Zam`a."
Bukhari:3378 Narrated Ibn `Umar:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) landed at Al-Hijr during the Ghazwa of Tabuk, he ordered his companions not 
to drink water from its well or reserve water from it. They said, "We have already kneaded the dough 
with its water. and also filled our bags with its water.'' On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to throw 
away the dough and pour out the water.
Bukhari:3379 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The people landed at the land of Thamud called Al-Hijr along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and they took 
water from its well for drinking and kneading the dough with it as well. (When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard 
about it) he ordered them to pour out the water they had taken from its wells and feed the camels with 
the dough, and ordered them to take water from the well whence the she-camel (of Prophet Salih) used 
to drink.
Bukhari:3380 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by (a place called) Al Hijr, he said, "Do not enter the house of those who 
were unjust to themselves, unless (you enter) weeping, lest you should suffer the same punishment as 
was inflicted upon them." After that he covered his face with his sheet cloth while he was on the 
camel-saddle.
Bukhari:3381 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not enter the ruined dwellings of those who were unjust to themselves 
unless (you enter) weeping, lest you should suffer the same punishment as was inflicted upon them."
Bukhari:3382 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The honorable is the son of the honorable, the son the honorable, i.e. Joseph, the 
son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham.
Bukhari:3383 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked, "Who is the most honorable amongst the people?" He replied, "The most 
Allah fearing." The people said, "We do not want to ask you about this." He said, "The most 
honorable person is Joseph, Allah's Prophet, the son of Allah's Prophet, the son of Allah's Prophet, the 
son of Allah's Khalil" The people said, 'We do not want to ask you about this." He said," Then you 
want to ask me about the origins of the Arabs? People are of various origins. The best in the prelslamic 
period are the best in Islam, provided they comprehend (the religious knowledge).
Bukhari:3384 Narrated `Aisha:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to her). "Order Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." She replied," Abu Bakr 
is a soft-hearted person and when he stands at your place, he will weep (so he will not be able to lead 
the prayer)." The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated the same order and she gave the same reply. The narrator, Shuba 
said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said on the third or fourth time. "You are (like) the female companions of Joseph. 
Order Abu Bakr to lead the prayer. "
Bukhari:3385 Narrated Abu Musa:When the Prophet (ﷺ) fell ill, he said, "Order Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." `Aisha said, "Abu 
Bakr is a soft-hearted person. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave the same order again and she again gave the same 
reply. He again said, "Order Abu Bakr (to lead the prayer)! You are (like) the female companions of 
Joseph." Consequently Abu Bakr led the people in prayer in the life-time of the Prophet.
Bukhari:3386 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Save `Aiyyash bin Abi Rabi`a (from the unjust treatment of the 
infidels). O Allah! Save Salama bin Hisham. O Allah! Send your Punishment on (the tribe of) Mudar. 
O Allah! Let them suffer from years (of drought) similar to that inflicted during the life-time of 
Joseph."
Bukhari:3387 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Lot. He wanted to have a powerful support. If 
I were to stay in prison (for a period equal to) the stay of Joseph (prison) and then the offer of freedom 
came to me, then I would have accepted it." (See Hadith No. 591)
Bukhari:3388 Narrated Masruq:I asked Um Ruman, `Aisha's mother about the accusation forged against `Aisha. She said, "While I 
was sitting with `Aisha, an Ansari woman came to us and said, 'Let Allah condemn such-and-such 
person.' I asked her, 'Why do you say so?' She replied, 'For he has spread the (slanderous) story.' 
`Aisha said, 'What story?' The woman then told her the story. `Aisha asked, 'Have Abu Bakr and 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard about it ?' She said, 'Yes.' `Aisha fell down senseless (on hearing that), and 
when she came to her senses, she got fever and shaking of the body. The Prophet (ﷺ) came and asked, 
'What is wrong with her?' I said, 'She has got fever because of a story which has been rumored.' 
`Aisha got up and said, 'By Allah! Even if I took an oath, you would not believe me, and if I put 
forward an excuse, You would not excuse me. My example and your example is just like that example 
of Jacob and his sons. Against that which you assert, it is Allah (Alone) Whose Help can be sought.' 
(12.18) The Prophet (ﷺ) left and then Allah revealed the Verses (concerning the matter), and on that 
`Aisha said, 'Thanks to Allah (only) and not to anybody else."
Bukhari:3389 Narrated `Urwa:I asked `Aisha the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) about the meaning of the following Verse: -- "(Respite will be granted) 'Until when the apostles give up hope (of their people) and thought that they were denied (by their people)..............."(12.110) `Aisha replied, "Really, their nations did not believe them." I said, "By Allah! They were definite that their nations treated them as liars and it was not a matter of suspecting." `Aisha said, "O 'Uraiya (i.e. `Urwa)! No doubt, they were quite sure about it." I said, "May the Verse be read in such a way as to mean that the apostles thought that Allah did not help them?" Aisha said, "Allah forbid! (Impossible) The Apostles did not suspect their Lord of such a thing. But this Verse is concerned with the Apostles' followers who had faith in their Lord and believed in their apostles and their period of trials was long and Allah's Help was delayed till the apostles gave up hope for the conversion of the disbelievers amongst their nation and suspected that even their followers were shaken in their belief, Allah's Help then came to them."
Bukhari:3390 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The honorable, the son of the honorable, the son of the honorable, (was) Joseph, the son of Jacob! the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham."
Bukhari:3391 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While Job was naked, taking a bath, a swarm of gold locusts fell on him and he 
started collecting them in his garment. His Lord called him, 'O Job! Have I not made you rich enough 
to need what you see? He said, 'Yes, O Lord! But I cannot dispense with your Blessing."'
Bukhari:3392 Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Khadija while his heart was beating rapidly. She took him to Waraqa bin 
Naufal who was a Christian convert and used to read the Gospels in Arabic Waraqa asked (the 
Prophet), "What do you see?" When he told him, Waraqa said, "That is the same angel whom Allah 
sent to the Prophet) Moses. Should I live till you receive the Divine Message, I will support you 
strongly."
Bukhari:3393 Narrated Malik bin Sasaa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) talked to his companions about his Night Journey to the Heavens. When he reached 
the fifth Heaven, he met Aaron. (Gabriel said to the Prophet), "This is Aaron." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 
"Gabriel greeted and so did I, and he returned the greeting saying, 'Welcome, O Pious Brother and 
Pious Prophet."
Bukhari:3394 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the night of my Ascension to Heaven, I saw (the prophet) Moses who was a 
thin person with lank hair, looking like one of the men of the tribe of Shanua; and I saw Jesus who 
was of average height with red face as if he had just come out of a bathroom. And I resemble prophet 
Abraham more than any of his offspring does. Then I was given two cups, one containing milk and the 
other wine. Gabriel said, 'Drink whichever you like.' I took the milk and drank it. Gabriel said, 'You 
have accepted what is natural, (True Religion i.e. Islam) and if you had taken the wine, your followers 
would have gone astray.' "
Bukhari:3395 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One should not say that I am better than Jonah (i.e. Yunus) bin Matta." So, he 
mentioned his father Matta. The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the night of his Ascension and said, "The prophet 
Moses was brown, a tall person as if from the people of the tribe of Shanu'a. Jesus was a curly-haired 
man of moderate height." He also mentioned Malik, the gate-keeper of the (Hell) Fire, and Ad-Dajjal.
Bukhari:3396 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One should not say that I am better than Jonah (i.e. Yunus) bin Matta." So, he 
mentioned his father Matta. The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the night of his Ascension and said, "The prophet 
Moses was brown, a tall person as if from the people of the tribe of Shanu'a. Jesus was a curly-haired 
man of moderate height." He also mentioned Malik, the gate-keeper of the (Hell) Fire, and Ad-Dajjal.
Bukhari:3397 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Medina, he found (the Jews) fasting on the day of 'Ashura' (i.e. 10th of 
Muharram). They used to say: "This is a great day on which Allah saved Moses and drowned the folk 
of Pharaoh. Moses observed the fast on this day, as a sign of gratitude to Allah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I 
am closer to Moses than they." So, he observed the fast (on that day) and ordered the Muslims to fast 
on it.
Bukhari:3398 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'People will be struck unconscious on the Day of Resurrection and I will be the first 
to regain consciousness, and behold! There I will see Moses holding one of the pillars of Allah's 
Throne. I will wonder whether he has become conscious before me of he has been exempted, because 
of his unconsciousness at the Tur (mountain) which he received (on the earth).
Bukhari:3399 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Were it not for Bani Israel, meat would not decay; and were it not for Eve, no 
woman would ever betray her husband."
Bukhari:3400 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:That he differed with Al-Hur bin Qais Al-Fazari regarding the companion of Moses. Ibn `Abbas said 
that he was Al-Khadir. Meanwhile Ubai bin Ka`b passed by them and Ibn `Abbas called him saying, 
"My friend and I have differed regarding Moses' companion whom Moses asked the way to meet. 
Have you heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioning something about him?" He said, "Yes, I heard Allah's 
Apostle saying, 'While Moses was sitting in the company of some Israelites, a man came and asked 
(him), 'Do you know anyone who is more learned than you?' Moses replied, 'No.' So, Allah sent the 
Divine Inspiration to Moses: 'Yes, Our slave, Khadir (is more learned than you).' Moses asked how to 
meet him (i.e. Khadir). So, the fish, was made, as a sign for him, and he was told that when the fish 
was lost, he should return and there he would meet him. So, Moses went on looking for the sign of the 
fish in the sea. The servant boy of Moses said to him, 'Do you know that when we were sitting by the 
side of the rock, I forgot the fish, and t was only Satan who made me forget to tell (you) about it.' 
Moses said, That was what we were seeking after,' and both of them returned, following their 
footmarks and found Khadir; and what happened further to them, is mentioned in Allah's Book."
Bukhari:3401 Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:I said to Ibn `Abbas, "Nauf Al-Bukah claims that Moses, the companion of Al-Khadir was not Moses 
(the prophet) of the children of Israel, but some other Moses." Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's enemy (i.e. 
Nauf) has told a lie. Ubai bin Ka`b told us that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Once Moses stood up and addressed 
Bani Israel. He was asked who was the most learned man amongst the people. He said, 'I.' Allah 
admonished him as he did not attribute absolute knowledge to Him (Allah). So, Allah said to him, 
'Yes, at the junction of the two seas there is a Slave of Mine who is more learned than you.' Moses 
said, 'O my Lord! How can I meet him?' 
Allah said, 'Take a fish and put it in a large basket and you will find him at the place where you will 
lose the fish.' Moses took a fish and put it in a basket and proceeded along with his (servant) boy, 
Yusha` bin Noon, till they reached the rock where they laid their heads (i.e. lay down). Moses slept, 
and the fish, moving out of the basket, fell into the sea. It took its way into the sea (straight) as in a 
tunnel. Allah stopped the flow of water over the fish and it became like an arch (the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed 
out this arch with his hands). They travelled the rest of the night, and the next day Moses said to his 
boy (servant), 'Give us our food, for indeed, we have suffered much fatigue in this journey of ours.' 
Moses did not feel tired till he crossed that place which Allah had ordered him to seek after. His boy 
(servant) said to him, 'Do you know that when we were sitting near that rock, I forgot the fish, and 
none but Satan caused me to forget to tell (you) about it, and it took its course into the sea in an 
amazing way?.' So there was a path for the fish and that astonished them. Moses said, 'That was what 
we were seeking after.' So, both of them retraced their footsteps till they reached the rock. 
There they saw a man Lying covered with a garment. Moses greeted him and he replied saying, 'How 
do people greet each other in your land?' Moses said, 'I am Moses.' The man asked, 'Moses of Bani 
Israel?' Moses said, 'Yes, I have come to you so that you may teach me from those things which Allah 
has taught you.' He said, 'O Moses! I have some of the Knowledge of Allah which Allah has taught 
me, and which you do not know, while you have some of the Knowledge of Allah which Allah has 
taught you and which I do not know.' Moses asked, 'May I follow you?' He said, 'But you will not be 
able to remain patient with me for how can you be patient about things which you will not be able to 
understand?' 
(Moses said, 'You will find me, if Allah so will, truly patient, and I will not disobey you in aught.') So, 
both of them set out walking along the sea-shore, a boat passed by them and they asked the crew of 
the boat to take them on board. The crew recognized Al-Khadir and so they took them on board 
without fare. When they were on board the boat, a sparrow came and stood on the edge of the boat and 
dipped its beak once or twice into the sea. 
Al-Khadir said to Moses, 'O Moses! My knowledge and your knowledge have not decreased Allah's 
Knowledge except as much as this sparrow has decreased the water of the sea with its beak.' Then 
suddenly Al-Khadir took an adze and plucked a plank, and Moses did not notice it till he had plucked 
a plank with the adze. Moses said to him, 'What have you done? They took us on board charging us 
nothing; yet you I have intentionally made a hole in their boat so as to drown its passengers. Verily, 
you have done a dreadful thing.' Al-Khadir replied, 'Did I not tell you that you would not be able to 
remain patient with me?' Moses replied, 'Do not blame me for what I have forgotten, and do not be 
hard upon me for my fault.' So the first excuse of Moses was that he had forgotten. When they had left 
the sea, they passed by a boy playing with other boys. 
Al-Khadir took hold of the boys head and plucked it with his hand like this. (Sufyan, the sub narrator 
pointed with his fingertips as if he was plucking some fruit.) Moses said to him, "Have you killed an 
innocent person who has not killed any person? You have really done a horrible thing." Al-Khadir 
said, "Did I not tell you that you could not remain patient with me?' Moses said "If I ask you about 
anything after this, don't accompany me. You have received an excuse from me.' Then both of them 
went on till they came to some people of a village, and they asked its inhabitant for wood but they 
refused to entertain them as guests. Then they saw therein a wall which was just going to collapse 
(and Al Khadir repaired it just by touching it with his hands). (Sufyan, the sub-narrator, pointed with 
his hands, illustrating how Al-Khadir passed his hands over the wall upwards.) Moses said, "These are 
the people whom we have called on, but they neither gave us food, nor entertained us as guests, yet 
you have repaired their wall. If you had wished, you could have taken wages for it." Al-Khadir said, 
"This is the parting between you and me, and I shall tell you the explanation of those things on which 
you could not remain patient." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "We wished that Moses could have remained 
patient by virtue of which Allah might have told us more about their story. (Sufyan the sub-narrator 
said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Moses! If he had remained patient, we 
would have been told further about their case.")
Bukhari:3402 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Khadir was named so because he sat over a barren white land, it turned green 
with plantation after (his sitting over it."
Bukhari:3403 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It was said to Bani Israel, Enter the gate (of the town) with humility (prostrating 
yourselves) and saying: "Repentance", but they changed the word and entered the town crawling on 
their buttocks and saying: "A wheat grain in the hair."
Bukhari:3404 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(The Prophet) Moses was a shy person and used to cover his body completely 
because of his extensive shyness. One of the children of Israel hurt him by saying, 'He covers his body 
in this way only because of some defect in his skin, either leprosy or scrotal hernia, or he has some 
other defect.' Allah wished to clear Moses of what they said about him, so one day while Moses was 
in seclusion, he took off his clothes and put them on a stone and started taking a bath. When he had 
finished the bath, he moved towards his clothes so as to take them, but the stone took his clothes and 
fled; Moses picked up his stick and ran after the stone saying, 'O stone! Give me my garment!' Till he 
reached a group of Bani Israel who saw him naked then, and found him the best of what Allah had 
created, and Allah cleared him of what they had accused him of. The stone stopped there and Moses 
took and put his garment on and started hitting the stone with his stick. By Allah, the stone still has 
some traces of the hitting, three, four or five marks. This was what Allah refers to in His Saying:-- "O 
you who believe! Be you not like those Who annoyed Moses, But Allah proved his innocence of that 
which they alleged, And he was honorable In Allah's Sight." (33.69)
Bukhari:3405 Narrated `Abdullah:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed something (among his followers. A man said, "This distribution has not 
been done (with justice) seeking Allah's Countenance." I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him (of that). 
He became so angry that I saw the signs of anger oh his face. Then he said, "May Allah bestow His 
Mercy on Moses, for he was harmed more (in a worse manner) than this; yet he endured patiently."
Bukhari:3406 Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:We were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) picking the fruits of the 'Arak trees, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Pick the 
black fruit, for it is the best." The companions asked, "Were you a shepherd?" He replied, "There was 
no prophet who was not a shepherd."
Bukhari:3407 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Angel of Death was sent to Moses when he came to Moses, Moses slapped him on the eye. The 
angel returned to his Lord and said, "You have sent me to a Slave who does not want to die." Allah 
said, "Return to him and tell him to put his hand on the back of an ox and for every hair that will come 
under it, he will be granted one year of life." Moses said, "O Lord! What will happen after that?" 
Allah replied, "Then death." Moses said, "Let it come now." Moses then requested Allah to let him die 
close to the Sacred Land so much so that he would be at a distance of a stone's throw from it." Abu 
Huraira added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If I were there, I would show you his grave below the red sand 
hill on the side of the road."
Bukhari:3408 Narrated Abu Huraira:A Muslim and a Jew quarreled. The Muslim taking an oath, said, "By Him Who has preferred 
Muhammad over all people...!" The Jew said, "By Him Who has preferred Moses, over all people." 
The Muslim raised his hand and slapped the Jew who came to the Prophet (ﷺ) to tell him what had 
happened between him and the Muslim. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't give me superiority over Moses, for 
the people will become unconscious (on the Day of Resurrection) and I will be the first to gain 
consciousness to see Moses standing and holding a side of Allah's Throne. I will not know if he has 
been among those people who have become unconscious; and that he has gained consciousness before 
me, or he has been amongst those whom Allah has exempted."
Bukhari:3409 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Adam and Moses argued with each other. Moses said to Adam. 'You are Adam 
whose mistake expelled you from Paradise.' Adam said to him, 'You are Moses whom Allah selected 
as His Messenger and as the one to whom He spoke directly; yet you blame me for a thing which had 
already been written in my fate before my creation?"' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said twice, "So, Adam 
overpowered Moses."
Bukhari:3410 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once came to us and said, "All the nations were displayed in front of me, and I saw a 
large multitude of people covering the horizon. Somebody said, 'This is Moses and his followers.' "
Bukhari:3411 Narrated Abu Musa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Many amongst men reached (the level of) perfection but none amongst the 
women reached this level except Asia, Pharaoh's wife, and Mary, the daughter of `Imran. And no 
doubt, the superiority of `Aisha to other women is like the superiority of Tharid (i.e. a meat and bread 
dish) to other meals."
Bukhari:3412 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say that I am better than Yunus (i.e. Jonah)." Musadded added, 
"Jonah bin Matta."
Bukhari:3413 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No slave (of Allah) should say that I am better than Yunus bin Matta." So the 
Prophet mentioned his father's name with his name.
Bukhari:3414 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once while a Jew was selling something, he was offered a price that he was not pleased with. So, he 
said, "No, by Him Who gave Moses superiority over all human beings!" Hearing him, an Ansari man 
got up and slapped him on the face and said, "You say: By Him Who Gave Moses superiority over all 
human beings although the Prophet (Muhammad) is present amongst us!" The Jew went to the 
Prophet and said, "O Abu-l-Qasim! I am under the assurance and contract of security, so what right 
does so-and-so have to slap me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked the other, "Why have you slapped". He told him 
the whole story. The Prophet (ﷺ) became angry, till anger appeared on his face, and said, "Don't give 
superiority to any prophet amongst Allah's Prophets, for when the trumpet will be blown, everyone on 
the earth and in the heavens will become unconscious except those whom Allah will exempt. The 
trumpet will be blown for the second time and I will be the first to be resurrected to see Moses holding 
Allah's Throne. I will not know whether the unconsciousness which Moses received on the Day of Tur 
has been sufficient for him, or has he got up before me. And I do not say that there is anybody who is 
better than Yunus bin Matta."
Bukhari:3415 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once while a Jew was selling something, he was offered a price that he was not pleased with. So, he 
said, "No, by Him Who gave Moses superiority over all human beings!" Hearing him, an Ansari man 
got up and slapped him on the face and said, "You say: By Him Who Gave Moses superiority over all 
human beings although the Prophet (Muhammad) is present amongst us!" The Jew went to the 
Prophet and said, "O Abu-l-Qasim! I am under the assurance and contract of security, so what right 
does so-and-so have to slap me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked the other, "Why have you slapped". He told him 
the whole story. The Prophet (ﷺ) became angry, till anger appeared on his face, and said, "Don't give 
superiority to any prophet amongst Allah's Prophets, for when the trumpet will be blown, everyone on 
the earth and in the heavens will become unconscious except those whom Allah will exempt. The 
trumpet will be blown for the second time and I will be the first to be resurrected to see Moses holding 
Allah's Throne. I will not know whether the unconsciousness which Moses received on the Day of Tur 
has been sufficient for him, or has he got up before me. And I do not say that there is anybody who is 
better than Yunus bin Matta."
Bukhari:3416 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None should say that I am better than Yunus bin Matta."
Bukhari:3417 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The reciting of the Zabur (i.e. Psalms) was made easy for David. He used to order 
that his riding animals be saddled, and would finish reciting the Zabur before they were saddled. And 
he would never eat except from the earnings of his manual work."
Bukhari:3418 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed that I have said: "By Allah, I will fast all the days and pray all the nights 
as long as I live." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked me. "Are you the one who says: 'I will fast all the 
days and pray all the nights as long as I live?' " I said, "Yes, I have said it." He said, "You cannot do 
that. So fast (sometimes) and do not fast (sometimes). Pray and sleep. Fast for three days a month, for 
the reward of a good deed is multiplied by ten time, and so the fasting of three days a month equals 
the fasting of a year." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I can do (fast) more than this." He said, "Fast on 
every third day. I said: I can do (fast) more than that, He said: "Fast on alternate days and this was the 
fasting of David which is the most moderate sort of fasting." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I can do (fast) 
more than that." He said, "There is nothing better than that."
Bukhari:3419 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-As:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "I have been informed that you pray all the nights and observe fast all the 
days; is this true?" I replied, "Yes." He said, "If you do so, your eyes will become weak and you will 
get bored. So fast three days a month, for this will be the fasting of a whole year, or equal to the 
fasting of a whole year." I said, "I find myself able to fast more." He said, "Then fast like the fasting 
of (the Prophet) David who used to fast on alternate days and would not flee on facing the enemy."
Bukhari:3420 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "The most beloved fasting to Allah was the fasting of (the Prophet) David 
who used to fast on alternate days. And the most beloved prayer to Allah was the prayer of David who 
used to sleep for (the first) half of the night and pray for 1/3 of it and (again) sleep for a sixth of it."
Bukhari:3421 Narrated Mujahid:I asked Ibn `Abbas, "Should we perform a prostration on reciting Surat-Sa`d?" He recited (the Sura) 
including: 'And among his progeny, David, Solomon..(up to)...so follow their guidance (6.84-91) And 
then he said, "Your Prophet is amongst those people who have been ordered to follow them (i.e. the 
preceding apostles).
Bukhari:3422 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The prostration in Sura-Sa`d is not amongst the compulsory prostrations, though I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) 
prostrating on reciting it.
Bukhari:3423 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A strong demon from the Jinns came to me yesterday suddenly, so as to spoil my 
prayer, but Allah enabled me to overpower him, and so I caught him and intended to tie him to one of 
the pillars of the Mosque so that all of you might see him, but I remembered the invocation of my 
brother Solomon: 'And grant me a kingdom such as shall not belong to any other after me.' (38.35) so 
I let him go cursed."
Bukhari:3424 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Solomon (the son of) David said, 'Tonight I will sleep with seventy ladies each of 
whom will conceive a child who will be a knight fighting for "Allah's Cause.' His companion said, 'If 
Allah will.' But Solomon did not say so; therefore none of those women got pregnant except one who 
gave birth to a half child." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "If the Prophet (ﷺ) Solomon had said it (i.e. 'If Allah 
will') he would have begotten children who would have fought in Allah's Cause." Shuaib and Ibn Abi 
Az-Zinad said, "Ninety (women) is more correct (than seventy).
Bukhari:3425 Narrated Abu Dhaar:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which mosque was built first?" He replied, "Al-Masjid-ul-Haram." I asked, 
"Which (was built) next?" He replied, "Al-Masjid-ul-Aqs-a (i.e. Jerusalem)." I asked, "What was the 
period in between them?" He replied, "Forty (years)." He then added, "Wherever the time for the 
prayer comes upon you, perform the prayer, for all the earth is a place of worshipping for you."
Bukhari:3426 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "My example and the example o the people is like that of a person who lit a fire 
and let the moths, butterflies and these insects fall in it." He also said, "There were two women, each 
of whom had a child with her. A wolf came and took away the child of one of them, whereupon the 
other said, 'It has taken your child.' The first said, 'But it has taken your child.' So they both carried the 
case before David who judged that the living child be given to the elder lady. So both of them went to 
Solomon bin David and informed him (of the case). He said, 'Bring me a knife so as to cut the child 
into two pieces and distribute it between them.' The younger lady said, 'May Allah be merciful to you! 
Don't do that, for it is her (i.e. the other lady's) child.' So he gave the child to the younger lady."
Bukhari:3427 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "My example and the example o the people is like that of a person who lit a fire 
and let the moths, butterflies and these insects fall in it." He also said, "There were two women, each 
of whom had a child with her. A wolf came and took away the child of one of them, whereupon the 
other said, 'It has taken your child.' The first said, 'But it has taken your child.' So they both carried the 
case before David who judged that the living child be given to the elder lady. So both of them went to 
Solomon bin David and informed him (of the case). He said, 'Bring me a knife so as to cut the child 
into two pieces and distribute it between them.' The younger lady said, 'May Allah be merciful to you! 
Don't do that, for it is her (i.e. the other lady's) child.' So he gave the child to the younger lady."
Bukhari:3428 Narrated `Abdullah:When the Verse:-- 'Those who believe and mix not their belief with wrong." was revealed, the 
companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who amongst us has not mixed his belief with wrong?" Then Allah 
revealed: "Join none in worship with Allah, Verily joining others in worship with Allah is a great 
wrong indeed."
Bukhari:3429 Narrated `Abdullah:When the Verse:-- 'Those who believe and mix not their belief with wrong.' was revealed, the 
Muslims felt it very hard on them and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who amongst us does not do wrong to 
himself?" He replied, "The Verse does not mean this. But that (wrong) means to associate others in 
worship to Allah: Don't you listen to what Luqman said to his son when he was advising him," O my 
son! Join not others in worship with Allah. Verily joining others in worship with Allah is a great 
wrong indeed." (31.13)
Bukhari:3430 Narrated Malik bin Sasaa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) talked to them about the night of his Ascension to the Heavens. He said, "(Then 
Gabriel took me) and ascended up till he reached the second heaven where he asked for the gate to be 
opened, but it was asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel replied, 'I am Gabriel.' It was asked, 'Who is 
accompanying you?' He replied, 'Muhammad.' It was asked, 'Has he been called?' He said, 'Yes.' 
When we reached over the second heaven, I saw Yahya (i.e. John) and Jesus who were cousins. 
Gabriel said, 'These are John (Yahya) and Jesus, so greet them.' I greeted them and they returned the 
greeting saying, 'Welcome, O Pious Brother and Pious Prophet!;' "
Bukhari:3431 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:Abu Huraira said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'There is none born among the off-spring of Adam, 
but Satan touches it. A child therefore, cries loudly at the time of birth because of the touch of Satan, 
except Mary and her child." Then Abu Huraira recited: "And I seek refuge with You for her and for 
her offspring from the outcast Satan" (3.36)
Bukhari:3432 Narrated `Ali:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Mary, the daughter of `Imran, was the best among the women (of the 
world of her time) and Khadija is the best amongst the women. (of this nation).
Bukhari:3433 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The superiority of `Aisha to other ladies is like the superiority of Tharid (i.e. meat and bread dish) to other meals. Many men reached the level of perfection, but no woman reached such a level except Mary, the daughter of `Imran and Asia, the wife of Pharaoh."
Bukhari:3434 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Amongst all those women who ride camels (i.e. Arabs), the ladies of Quraish are the best. They are merciful and kind to their off-spring and the best guardians of their husbands' properties.' Abu Huraira added, "Mary the daughter of `Imran never rode a camel."
Bukhari:3435 Narrated 'Ubada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone testifies that None has the right to be worshipped but Allah Alone Who 
has no partners, and that Muhammad is His Slave and His Apostle, and that Jesus is Allah's Slave and 
His Apostle and His Word which He bestowed on Mary and a Spirit created by Him, and that Paradise 
is true, and Hell is true, Allah will admit him into Paradise with the deeds which he had done even if 
those deeds were few." (Junada, the sub-narrator said, " 'Ubada added, 'Such a person can enter 
Paradise through any of its eight gates he likes.")
Bukhari:3436 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None spoke in cradle but three: (The first was) Jesus, (the second was), there a man 
from Bani Israel called Juraij. While he was offering his prayers, his mother came and called him. He 
said (to himself), 'Shall I answer her or keep on praying?" (He went on praying) and did not answer 
her, his mother said, "O Allah! Do not let him die till he sees the faces of prostitutes." So while he was 
in his hermitage, a lady came and sought to seduce him, but he refused. So she went to a shepherd and 
presented herself to him to commit illegal sexual intercourse with her and then later she gave birth to a 
child and claimed that it belonged to Juraij. The people, therefore, came to him and dismantled his 
hermitage and expelled him out of it and abused him. Juraij performed the ablution and offered prayer, 
and then came to the child and said, 'O child! Who is your father?' The child replied, 'The shepherd.' 
(After hearing this) the people said, 'We shall rebuild your hermitage of gold,' but he said, 'No, of 
nothing but mud.'(The third was the hero of the following story) A lady from Bani Israel was nursing 
her child at her breast when a handsome rider passed by her. She said, 'O Allah ! Make my child like 
him.' On that the child left her breast, and facing the rider said, 'O Allah! Do not make me like him.' 
The child then started to suck her breast again. (Abu Huraira further said, "As if I were now looking at 
the Prophet (ﷺ) sucking his finger (in way of demonstration.") After a while the people passed by, with a 
lady slave and she (i.e. the child's mother) said, 'O Allah! Do not make my child like this (slave girl)!, 
On that the child left her breast and said, 'O Allah! Make me like her.' When she asked why, the child 
replied, 'The rider is one of the tyrants while this slave girl is falsely accused of theft and illegal sexual 
intercourse."
Bukhari:3437 Narrated Hisham:From Ma`mar as below.Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I met Moses on the night of my Ascension to heaven." The Prophet (ﷺ) then described 
him saying, as I think, "He was a tall person with lank hair as if he belonged to the people of the tribe 
of Shanu's.' The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "I met Jesus." The Prophet (ﷺ) described him saying, "He was one 
of moderate height and was red-faced as if he had just come out of a bathroom. I saw Abraham whom 
I resembled more than any of his children did." The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "(That night) I was given 
two cups; one full of milk and the other full of wine. I was asked to take either of them which I liked, 
and I took the milk and drank it. On that it was said to me, 'You have taken the right path (religion). If 
you had taken the wine, your (Muslim) nation would have gone astray."
Bukhari:3438 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw Moses, Jesus and Abraham (on the night of my Ascension to the heavens). 
Jesus was of red complexion, curly hair and a broad chest. Moses was of brown complexion, straight 
hair and tall stature as if he was from the people of Az-Zutt."
Bukhari:3439 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the Masih Ad-Dajjal in front of the people saying, Allah is not one-eyed 
while Masih Ad-Dajjal is blind in the right eye and his eye looks like a bulging out grape. While 
sleeping near the Ka`ba last night, I saw in my dream a man of brown color the best one can see 
amongst brown color and his hair was long that it fell between his shoulders. His hair was lank and 
water was dribbling from his head and he was placing his hands on the shoulders of two men while 
circumambulating the Ka`ba. I asked, 'Who is this?' They replied, 'This is Jesus, son of Mary.' Behind 
him I saw a man who had very curly hair and was blind in the right eye, resembling Ibn Qatan (i.e. an 
infidel) in appearance. He was placing his hands on the shoulders of a person while performing Tawaf 
around the Ka`ba. I asked, 'Who is this? 'They replied, 'The Masih, Ad-Dajjal.' "
Bukhari:3440 Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the Masih Ad-Dajjal in front of the people saying, Allah is not one-eyed 
while Masih Ad-Dajjal is blind in the right eye and his eye looks like a bulging out grape. While 
sleeping near the Ka`ba last night, I saw in my dream a man of brown color the best one can see 
amongst brown color and his hair was long that it fell between his shoulders. His hair was lank and 
water was dribbling from his head and he was placing his hands on the shoulders of two men while 
circumambulating the Ka`ba. I asked, 'Who is this?' They replied, 'This is Jesus, son of Mary.' Behind 
him I saw a man who had very curly hair and was blind in the right eye, resembling Ibn Qatan (i.e. an 
infidel) in appearance. He was placing his hands on the shoulders of a person while performing Tawaf 
around the Ka`ba. I asked, 'Who is this? 'They replied, 'The Masih, Ad-Dajjal.' "
Bukhari:3441 Narrated Salim from his father:No, By Allah, the Prophet (ﷺ) did not tell that Jesus was of red complexion but said, "While I was asleep 
circumambulating the Ka`ba (in my dream), suddenly I saw a man of brown complexion and lank hair 
walking between two men, and water was dropping from his head. I asked, 'Who is this?' The people 
said, 'He is the son of Mary.' Then I looked behind and I saw a red-complexioned, fat, curly-haired 
man, blind in the right eye which looked like a bulging out grape. I asked, 'Who is this?' They replied, 
'He is Ad-Dajjal.' The one who resembled to him among the people, was Ibn Qatar." (Az-Zuhri said, 
"He (i.e. Ibn Qatan) was a man from the tribe Khuza`a who died in the pre-lslamic period.")
Bukhari:3442 Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "I am the nearest of all the people to the son of Mary, and all the 
prophets are paternal brothers, and there has been no prophet between me and him (i.e. Jesus).
Bukhari:3443 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Both in this world and in the Hereafter, I am the nearest of all the people to 
Jesus, the son of Mary. The prophets are paternal brothers; their mothers are different, but their 
religion is one."
Bukhari:3444 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Jesus, seeing a man stealing, asked him, 'Did you steal?, He said, 'No, by Allah, besides Whom there is none who has the right to be worshipped' Jesus said, 'I believe in Allah and suspect my eyes."
Bukhari:3445 Narrated `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not exaggerate in praising me as the Christians praised the son of 
Mary, for I am only a Slave. So, call me the Slave of Allah and His Apostle."
Bukhari:3446 Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a person teaches his slave girl good manners properly, educates her properly, 
and then manumits and marries her, he will get a double reward. And if a man believes in Jesus and 
then believes in me, he will get a double reward. And if a slave fears his Lord (i.e. Allah) and obeys 
his masters, he too will get a double reward."
Bukhari:3447 Narrted Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You will be resurrected (and assembled) bare-footed, naked and 
uncircumcised." The Prophet (ﷺ) then recited the Divine Verse:-- "As We began the first creation, We 
shall repeat it: A promise We have undertaken. Truly we shall do it." (21.104) 
He added, "The first to be dressed will be Abraham. Then some of my companions will take to the 
right and to the left. I will say: 'My companions! 'It will be said, 'They had been renegades since you 
left them.' I will then say what the Pious Slave Jesus, the son of Mary said: 'And I was a witness over 
them while I dwelt amongst them; when You did take me up, You were the Watcher over them, and 
You are a Witness to all things. If You punish them, they are Your slaves, and if you forgive them, 
You, only You are the All-Mighty the All-Wise.' " (5.117-118) Narrated Quaggas, "Those were the 
apostates who renegade from Islam during the Caliphate of Abu Bakr who fought them".
Bukhari:3448 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my soul is, surely (Jesus,) the son of Mary will soon 
descend amongst you and will judge mankind justly (as a Just Ruler); he will break the Cross and kill 
the pigs and there will be no Jizya (i.e. taxation taken from non Muslims). Money will be in 
abundance so that nobody will accept it, and a single prostration to Allah (in prayer) will be better 
than the whole world and whatever is in it." Abu Huraira added "If you wish, you can recite (this 
verse of the Holy Book): -- 'And there is none Of the people of the Scriptures (Jews and Christians) 
But must believe in him (i.e Jesus as an Apostle of Allah and a human being) Before his death. And 
on the Day of Judgment He will be a witness Against them." (4.159) (See Fath-ul-Bari, Page 302 Vol 
7)
Bukhari:3449 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "How will you be when the son of Mary (i.e. Jesus) descends amongst you and your imam is among you."
Bukhari:3450 Narrated Rabi bin Hirash:`Uqba bin `Amr said to Hudhaifa, "Won't you relate to us of what you have heard from Allah's 
Apostle ?" He said, "I heard him saying, "When Al-Dajjal appears, he will have fire and water along 
with him. What the people will consider as cold water, will be fire that will burn (things). So, if 
anyone of you comes across this, he should fall in the thing which will appear to him as fire, for in 
reality, it will be fresh cold water." Hudhaifa added, "I also heard him saying, 'From among the people 
preceding your generation, there was a man whom the angel of death visited to capture his soul. (So 
his soul was captured) and he was asked if he had done any good deed.' He replied, 'I don't remember 
any good deed.' He was asked to think it over. He said, 'I do not remember, except that I used to trade 
with the people in the world and I used to give a respite to the rich and forgive the poor (among my 
debtors). So Allah made him enter Paradise." Hudhaifa further said, "I also heard him saying, 'Once 
there was a man on his death-bed, who, losing every hope of surviving said to his family: When I die, 
gather for me a large heap of wood and make a fire (to burn me). When the fire eats my meat and 
reaches my bones, and when the bones burn, take and crush them into powder and wait for a windy 
day to throw it (i.e. the powder) over the sea. They did so, but Allah collected his particles and asked 
him: 
Why did you do so? He replied: For fear of You. So Allah forgave him." `Uqba bin `Amr said, "I 
heard him saying that the Israeli used to dig the grave of the dead (to steal their shrouds).
Bukhari:3451 Narrated Rabi bin Hirash:`Uqba bin `Amr said to Hudhaifa, "Won't you relate to us of what you have heard from Allah's 
Apostle ?" He said, "I heard him saying, "When Al-Dajjal appears, he will have fire and water along 
with him. What the people will consider as cold water, will be fire that will burn (things). So, if 
anyone of you comes across this, he should fall in the thing which will appear to him as fire, for in 
reality, it will be fresh cold water." Hudhaifa added, "I also heard him saying, 'From among the people 
preceding your generation, there was a man whom the angel of death visited to capture his soul. (So 
his soul was captured) and he was asked if he had done any good deed.' He replied, 'I don't remember 
any good deed.' He was asked to think it over. He said, 'I do not remember, except that I used to trade 
with the people in the world and I used to give a respite to the rich and forgive the poor (among my 
debtors). So Allah made him enter Paradise." Hudhaifa further said, "I also heard him saying, 'Once 
there was a man on his death-bed, who, losing every hope of surviving said to his family: When I die, 
gather for me a large heap of wood and make a fire (to burn me). When the fire eats my meat and 
reaches my bones, and when the bones burn, take and crush them into powder and wait for a windy 
day to throw it (i.e. the powder) over the sea. They did so, but Allah collected his particles and asked 
him: 
Why did you do so? He replied: For fear of You. So Allah forgave him." `Uqba bin `Amr said, "I 
heard him saying that the Israeli used to dig the grave of the dead (to steal their shrouds).
Bukhari:3452 Narrated Rabi bin Hirash:`Uqba bin `Amr said to Hudhaifa, "Won't you relate to us of what you have heard from Allah's 
Apostle ?" He said, "I heard him saying, "When Al-Dajjal appears, he will have fire and water along 
with him. What the people will consider as cold water, will be fire that will burn (things). So, if 
anyone of you comes across this, he should fall in the thing which will appear to him as fire, for in 
reality, it will be fresh cold water." Hudhaifa added, "I also heard him saying, 'From among the people 
preceding your generation, there was a man whom the angel of death visited to capture his soul. (So 
his soul was captured) and he was asked if he had done any good deed.' He replied, 'I don't remember 
any good deed.' He was asked to think it over. He said, 'I do not remember, except that I used to trade 
with the people in the world and I used to give a respite to the rich and forgive the poor (among my 
debtors). So Allah made him enter Paradise." Hudhaifa further said, "I also heard him saying, 'Once 
there was a man on his death-bed, who, losing every hope of surviving said to his family: When I die, 
gather for me a large heap of wood and make a fire (to burn me). When the fire eats my meat and 
reaches my bones, and when the bones burn, take and crush them into powder and wait for a windy 
day to throw it (i.e. the powder) over the sea. They did so, but Allah collected his particles and asked 
him: 
Why did you do so? He replied: For fear of You. So Allah forgave him." `Uqba bin `Amr said, "I 
heard him saying that the Israeli used to dig the grave of the dead (to steal their shrouds).
Bukhari:3453 Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:On his death-bed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put a sheet over his-face and when he felt hot, he would remove it 
from his face. When in that state (of putting and removing the sheet) he said, "May Allah's Curse be 
on the Jews and the Christians for they build places of worship at the graves of their prophets." (By 
that) he intended to warn (the Muslim) from what they (i.e. Jews and Christians) had done.
Bukhari:3454 Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:On his death-bed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put a sheet over his-face and when he felt hot, he would remove it 
from his face. When in that state (of putting and removing the sheet) he said, "May Allah's Curse be 
on the Jews and the Christians for they build places of worship at the graves of their prophets." (By 
that) he intended to warn (the Muslim) from what they (i.e. Jews and Christians) had done.
Bukhari:3455 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Israelis used to be ruled and guided by prophets: Whenever a prophet died, 
another would take over his place. There will be no prophet after me, but there will be Caliphs who 
will increase in number." The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you order us (to do)?" He 
said, "Obey the one who will be given the pledge of allegiance first. Fulfil their (i.e. the Caliphs) 
rights, for Allah will ask them about (any shortcoming) in ruling those Allah has put under their 
guardianship."
Bukhari:3456 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will follow the wrong ways, of your predecessors so completely and literally 
that if they should go into the hole of a mastigure, you too will go there." We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! 
Do you mean the Jews and the Christians?" He replied, "Whom else?" (Meaning, of course, the Jews 
and the Christians.)
Bukhari:3457 Narrated Anas:The people mentioned the fire and the bell (as means proposed for announcing the time of prayer) and 
by such a suggestion they referred to the Jews and the Christians. But Bilal was ordered, "Pronounce 
the words of the Adhan (i.e. call for the prayer) twice and the Iqama once only."
Bukhari:3458 Narrated `Aisha:That she used to hate that one should keep his hands on his flanks while praying. She said that the Jew 
used to do so.
Bukhari:3459 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Your period (i.e. the Muslims' period) in comparison to the periods of the 
previous nations, is like the period between the `Asr prayer and sunset. And your example in 
comparison to the Jews and the Christians is like the example of a person who employed some 
laborers and asked them, 'Who will work for me till midday for one Qirat each?' The Jews worked for 
half a day for one Qirat each. The person asked, 'Who will do the work for me from midday to the 
time of the `Asr (prayer) for one Qirat each?' The Christians worked from midday till the `Asr prayer 
for one Qirat. Then the person asked, 'Who will do the work for me from the `Asr till sunset for two 
Qirats each?' " The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "It is you (i.e. Muslims) who are doing the work from the `Asr till 
sunset, so you will have a double reward. The Jews and the Christians got angry and said, 'We have 
done more work but got less wages.' Allah said, 'Have I been unjust to you as regards your rights?' 
They said, 'No.' So Allah said, 'Then it is My Blessing which I bestow on whomever I like. "
Bukhari:3460 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard `Umar saying, "May Allah Curse so-and-so! Doesn't he know that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'May 
Allah curse the Jews for, though they were forbidden (to eat) fat, they liquefied it and sold it. "
Bukhari:3461 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Convey (my teachings) to the people even if it were a single sentence, and tell 
others the stories of Bani Israel (which have been taught to you), for it is not sinful to do so. And 
whoever tells a lie on me intentionally, will surely take his place in the (Hell) Fire."
Bukhari:3462 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Jews and the Christians do not dye (their grey hair), so you shall do the 
opposite of what they do (i.e. dye your grey hair and beards).
Bukhari:3463 Narrated Jundub:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Amongst the nations before you there was a man who got a wound, and 
growing impatient (with its pain), he took a knife and cut his hand with it and the blood did not stop 
till he died. Allah said, 'My Slave hurried to bring death upon himself so I have forbidden him (to 
enter) Paradise.' "
Bukhari:3464 Narrated Abu Huraira:that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Allah willed to test three Israelis who were a Leper, a blind man 
and a bald-headed man. So, he sent them an angel who came to the leper and said, 'What thing do you 
like most?' He replied, 'Good color and good skin, for the people have a strong aversion to me.' The 
angel touched him and his illness was cured, and he was given a good color and beautiful skin. The 
angel asked him, 'What kind of property do you like best?' He replied, 'Camels (or cows).' (The 
narrator is in doubt, for either the leper or the bald-headed man demanded camels and the other 
demanded cows). So he (i.e. the leper) was given a pregnant she-camel, and the angel said (to him), 
'May Allah bless you in it.' 
The angel then went to the bald-headed man and said, 'What thing do you like most?' He said, 'I like 
good hair and wish to be cured of this disease, for the people feel repulsion for me.' The angel touched 
him and his illness was cured, and he was given good hair. The angel asked (him), 'What kind of 
property do you like best?' He replied, 'Cows,' The angel gave him a pregnant cow and said, 'May 
Allah bless you in it.' The angel went to the blind man and asked, 'What thing do you like best?' He 
said, '(I like) that Allah may restore my eye-sight to me so that I may see the people.' The angel 
touched his eyes and Allah gave him back his eye-sight. The angel asked him, 'What kind of property 
do you like best?' He replied, 'Sheep.' The angel gave him a pregnant sheep. Afterwards, all the three 
pregnant animals gave birth to young ones, and multiplied and brought forth so much that one of the 
(three) men had a herd of camels filling a valley, and one had a herd of cows filling a valley, and one 
had a flock of sheep filling a valley. Then the angel, disguised in the shape and appearance of a leper, 
went to the leper and said, I am a poor man, who has lost all means of livelihood while on a journey. 
So none will satisfy my need except Allah and then you. In the Name of Him Who has given you such 
nice color and beautiful skin, and so much property, I ask you to give me a camel so that I may reach 
my destination. The man replied, 'I have many obligations (so I cannot give you).' The angel said, 'I 
think I know you; were you not a leper to whom the people had a strong aversion? Weren't you a poor 
man, and then Allah gave you (all this property).' He replied, '(This is all wrong), I got this property 
through inheritance from my fore-fathers.' The angel said, 'If you are telling a lie, then let Allah make 
you as you were before. ' 
Then the angel, disguised in the shape and appearance of a bald man, went to the bald man and said to 
him the same as he told the first one, and he too answered the same as the first one did. The angel 
said, 'If you are telling a lie, then let Allah make you as you were before.' 
The angel, disguised in the shape of a blind man, went to the blind man and said, 'I am a poor man and 
a traveler, whose means of livelihood have been exhausted while on a journey. I have nobody to help 
me except Allah, and after Him, you yourself. I ask you in the Name of Him Who has given you back 
your eye-sight to give me a sheep, so that with its help, I may complete my journey.' The man said, 'No 
doubt, I was blind and Allah gave me back my eye-sight; I was poor and Allah made me rich; so take 
anything you wish from my property. By Allah, I will not stop you for taking anything (you need) of 
my property which you may take for Allah's sake.' The angel replied, 'Keep your property with you. 
You (i.e the three men) have been tested, and Allah is pleased with you and is angry with your two 
companions."
Bukhari:3465 Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Once three persons (from the previous nations) were traveling, and suddenly it 
started raining and they took shelter in a cave. The entrance of the cave got closed while they were 
inside. They said to each other, 'O you! Nothing can save you except the truth, so each of you should 
ask Allah's Help by referring to such a deed as he thinks he did sincerely (i.e. just for gaining Allah's 
Pleasure).' So one of them said, 'O Allah! You know that I had a laborer who worked for me for one 
Faraq (i.e. three Sas) of rice, but he departed, leaving it (i.e. his wages). I sowed that Faraq of rice and 
with its yield I bought cows (for him). Later on when he came to me asking for his wages, I said (to 
him), 'Go to those cows and drive them away.' He said to me, 'But you have to pay me only a Faraq of 
rice,' I said to him, 'Go to those cows and take them, for they are the product of that Faraq (of rice).' 
So he drove them. O Allah! If you consider that I did that for fear of You, then please remove the 
rock.' The rock shifted a bit from the mouth of the cave. 
The second one said, 'O Allah, You know that I had old parents whom I used to provide with the milk 
of my sheep every night. One night I was delayed and when I came, they had slept, while my wife and 
children were crying with hunger. I used not to let them (i.e. my family) drink unless my parents had 
drunk first. So I disliked to wake them up and also disliked that they should sleep without drinking it, 
I kept on waiting (for them to wake) till it dawned. O Allah! If You consider that I did that for fear of 
you, then please remove the rock.' So the rock shifted and they could see the sky through it. The 
(third) one said, 'O Allah! You know that I had a cousin (i.e. my paternal uncle's daughter) who was 
most beloved to me and I sought to seduce her, but she refused, unless I paid her one-hundred Dinars 
(i.e. gold pieces). So I collected the amount and brought it to her, and she allowed me to sleep with 
her. But when I sat between her legs, she said, 'Be afraid of Allah, and do not deflower me but legally. 
'I got up and left the hundred Dinars (for her). O Allah! If You consider that I did that for fear of you 
than please remove the rock. So Allah saved them and they came out (of the cave)."
Bukhari:3466 Narrated Abu Huraira:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While a lady was nursing her child, a rider passed by and she 
said, 'O Allah! Don't let my child die till he becomes like this (rider).' The child said, 'O Allah! Don't 
make me like him,' and then returned to her breast (sucking it). (After a while) they passed by a lady 
who was being pulled and teased (by the people). The child's mother said, 'O Allah! Do not make my 
child like her.' The child said, 'O Allah! Make me like her.' Then he said, 'As for the rider, he is an 
infidel, while the lady is accused of illegal sexual intercourse (falsely) and she says: Allah is sufficient 
for me (He knows the truth).
Bukhari:3467 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While a dog was going round a well and was about to die of thirst, an Israeli 
prostitute saw it and took off her shoe and watered it. So Allah forgave her because of that good 
deed."
Bukhari:3468 Narrated Humaid bin `Abdur-Rahman:That he heard Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (talking) on the pulpit in the year when he performed the Hajj. 
He took a tuft of hair that was in the hand of an orderly and said, "O people of Medina! Where are 
your learned men? I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbidding such a thing as this (i.e. false hair) and he used to 
say, 'The Israelis were destroyed when their ladies practiced this habit (of using false hair to lengthen 
their locks).
Bukhari:3469 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Amongst the people preceding you there used to be 'Muhaddithun' (i.e. persons 
who can guess things that come true later on, as if those persons have been inspired by a divine 
power), and if there are any such persons amongst my followers, it is `Umar bin Al-Khattab."
Bukhari:3470 Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Amongst the men of Bani Israel there was a man who had murdered ninety-nine 
persons. Then he set out asking (whether his repentance could be accepted or not). He came upon a 
monk and asked him if his repentance could be accepted. The monk replied in the negative and so the 
man killed him. He kept on asking till a man advised to go to such and such village. (So he left for it) 
but death overtook him on the way. While dying, he turned his chest towards that village (where he 
had hoped his repentance would be accepted), and so the angels of mercy and the angels of 
punishment quarrelled amongst themselves regarding him. Allah ordered the village (towards which 
he was going) to come closer to him, and ordered the village (whence he had come), to go far away, 
and then He ordered the angels to measure the distances between his body and the two villages. So he 
was found to be one span closer to the village (he was going to). So he was forgiven."
Bukhari:3471 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); offered the morning prayer and then faced the people and said, "While a man 
was driving a cow, he suddenly rode over it and beat it. The cow said, "We have not been created for 
this, but we have been created for sloughing." On that the people said astonishingly, "Glorified be 
Allah! A cow speaks!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I believe this, and Abu Bakr and `Umar too, believe it, 
although neither of them was present there. While a person was amongst his sheep, a wolf attacked 
and took one of the sheep. The man chased the wolf till he saved it from the wolf, where upon the 
wolf said, 'You have saved it from me; but who will guard it on the day of the wild beasts when there 
will be no shepherd to guard them except me (because of riots and afflictions)? ' " The people said 
surprisingly, "Glorified be Allah! A wolf speaks!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But I believe this, and Abu Bakr 
and `Umar too, believe this, although neither of them was present there." (See the Foot-note of page 
No. 10 Vol.5)
Bukhari:3472 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A man bought a piece of land from another man, and the buyer found an 
earthenware jar filled with gold in the land. The buyer said to the seller. 'Take your gold, as I have 
bought only the land from you, but I have not bought the gold from you.' The (former) owner of the 
land said, "I have sold you the land with everything in it.' So both of them took their case before a 
man who asked, 'Do you have children?' One of them said, "I have a boy.' The other said, "I have a 
girl.' The man said, 'Marry the girl to the boy and spend the money on both of them and give the rest 
of it in charity.'"
Bukhari:3473 Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Plague was a means of torture sent on a group of Israelis (or on some people 
before you). So if you hear of its spread in a land, don't approach it, and if a plague should appear in a 
land where you are present, then don't leave that land in order to run away from it (i.e. plague).
Bukhari:3474 Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the plague. He told me that it was a 
Punishment sent by Allah on whom he wished, and Allah made it a source of mercy for the believers, 
for if one in the time of an epidemic plague stays in his country patiently hoping for Allah's Reward 
and believing that nothing will befall him except what Allah has written for him, he will get the 
reward of a martyr."
Bukhari:3475 Narrated `Aisha:The people of Quraish worried about the lady from Bani Makhzum who had committed theft. They 
asked, "Who will intercede for her with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Some said, "No one dare to do so except 
Usama bin Zaid the beloved one to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ." When Usama spoke about that to Allah's 
Apostle Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, (to him), "Do you try to intercede for somebody in a case connected 
with Allah's Prescribed Punishments?" Then he got up and delivered a sermon saying, "What 
destroyed the nations preceding you, was that if a noble amongst them stole, they would forgive him, 
and if a poor person amongst them stole, they would inflict Allah's Legal punishment on him. By 
Allah, if Fatima, the daughter of Muhammad stole, I would cut off her hand."
Bukhari:3476 Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:I heard a person reciting a (Qur'anic) Verse in a certain way, and I had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting the 
same Verse in a different way. So I took him to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him of that but I noticed the 
sign of disapproval on his face, and then he said, "Both of you are correct, so don't differ, for the 
nations before you differed, so they were destroyed."
Bukhari:3477 Narrated `Abdullah:As if I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) talking about one of the prophets whose nation had beaten him and caused him 
to bleed, while he was cleaning the blood off his face and saying, "O Allah! Forgive my nation, for 
they have no knowledge."
Bukhari:3478 Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Amongst the people preceding your age, there was a man whom Allah had given a 
lot of money. While he was in his death-bed, he called his sons and said, 'What type of father have I 
been to you? They replied, 'You have been a good father.' He said, 'I have never done a single good 
deed; so when I die, burn me, crush my body, and scatter the resulting ashes on a windy day.' His sons 
did accordingly, but Allah gathered his particles and asked (him), 'What made you do so?' He replied, 
"Fear of you.' So Allah bestowed His Mercy upon him. (forgave him).
Bukhari:3479 Narrated Rabi` bin Hirash:`Uqba said to Hudhaifa, "Won't you narrate to us what you heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" Hudhaifa 
said, "I heard him saying, 'Death approached a man and when he had no hope of surviving, he said to 
his family, 'When I die, gather for me much wood and build a fire (to burn me),. When the fire has 
eaten my flesh and reached my bones, take the bones and grind them and scatter the resulting powder 
in the sea on a hot (or windy) day.' (That was done.) But Allah collected his particles and asked (him), 
'Why did you do so?' He replied, 'For fear of You.' So Allah forgave him."Narrated `Abdu Malik:As above, saying, "On a windy day."
Bukhari:3480 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A man used to give loans to the people and used to say to his servant, 'If the 
debtor is poor, forgive him, so that Allah may forgive us.' So when he met Allah (after his death), 
Allah forgave him."
Bukhari:3481 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man used to do sinful deeds, and when death came to him, he said to his sons, 
'After my death, burn me and then crush me, and scatter the powder in the air, for by Allah, if Allah 
has control over me, He will give me such a punishment as He has never given to anyone else.' When 
he died, his sons did accordingly. Allah ordered the earth saying, 'Collect what you hold of his 
particles.' It did so, and behold! There he was (the man) standing. Allah asked (him), 'What made you 
do what you did?' He replied, 'O my Lord! I was afraid of You.' So Allah forgave him. " Another 
narrator said "The man said, Fear of You, O Lord!"
Bukhari:3482 Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A lady was punished because of a cat which she had imprisoned till it died. She 
entered the (Hell) Fire because of it, for she neither gave it food nor water as she had imprisoned it, 
nor set it free to eat from the vermin of the earth."
Bukhari:3483 Narrated Abu Masud `Uqba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the sayings of the prophets which the people have got, is. 'If you do not feel 
ashamed, then do whatever you like."
Bukhari:3484 Narrated Abu Mus'ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the sayings of the prophets which the people have got is, 'If you do not feel 
ashamed, then do whatever you like."
Bukhari:3485 Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While a man was walking, dragging his dress with pride, he was caused to be 
swallowed by the earth and will go on sinking in it till the Day of Resurrection."
Bukhari:3486 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are the last (to come) but we will be the foremost on the Day of Resurrection, 
nations were given the Book (i.e. Scripture) before us, and we were given the Holy Book after them. 
This (i.e. Friday) is the day about which they differed. So the next day (i.e. Saturday) was prescribed 
for the Jews and the day after it (i.e. Sunday) for the Christians. It is incumbent on every Muslim to 
wash his head and body on a Day (i.e. Friday) (at least) in every seven days."
Bukhari:3487 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are the last (to come) but we will be the foremost on the Day of Resurrection, 
nations were given the Book (i.e. Scripture) before us, and we were given the Holy Book after them. 
This (i.e. Friday) is the day about which they differed. So the next day (i.e. Saturday) was prescribed 
for the Jews and the day after it (i.e. Sunday) for the Christians. It is incumbent on every Muslim to 
wash his head and body on a Day (i.e. Friday) (at least) in every seven days."
Bukhari:3488 Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:When Muawiya bin Abu Sufyan came to Medina for the last time, he delivered a sermon before us. 
He took out a tuft of hair and said, "I never thought that someone other than the Jews would do such a 
thing (i.e. use false hair). The Prophet (ﷺ) named such a practice, 'Az-Zur' (i.e. falsehood)," meaning the 
use of false hair.
Bukhari:3489 Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Verse: 'And (We) made you into Shu'ub and Qabail-- (49.13) that Shu'uib means the 
big Qabail (i.e. nations) while the Qabail (i.e. tribes) means the branch tribes.
Bukhari:3490 Narrated Abu Huraira:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked, "Who is the most honorable amongst the people?" He said, "The 
most righteous (i.e. Allah-fearing) amongst you." They said, "We do not ask you about this." He said, 
"Then Joseph, the prophet of Allah."
Bukhari:3491 Narrated Kulaib bin Wail:I asked Zainab bint Abi Salama (i.e. daughter of the wife of the Prophet, "Tell me about the Prophet (ﷺ) . 
Did he belong to the tribe of Mudar?" She replied, "Yes, he belonged to the tribe of Mudar and was 
from the offspring of An-Nadr bin Kinana."
Bukhari:3492 Narrated Kulaib:I was told by the Rabiba (i.e. daughter of the wife of the Prophet) who, I think, was Zainab, that the 
Prophet (forbade the utensils (of wine called) Ad-Dubba, Al-Hantam, Al-Muqaiyar and Al-Muzaffat. I 
said to her, 'Tell me as to which tribe the Prophet (ﷺ) belonged; was he from the tribe of Mudar?'' She 
replied, "He belonged to the tribe of Mudar and was from the offspring of An-Nadr bin Kinana. "
Bukhari:3493 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see that the people are of different natures. Those who were the best in the 
pre-lslamic period, are also the best in Islam if they comprehend religious knowledge. You see that the 
best amongst the people in this respect (i.e. ambition of ruling) are those who hate it most. And you 
see that the worst among people is the double faced (person) who appears to these with one face and 
to the others with another face (i.e a hypocrite).
Bukhari:3494 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see that the people are of different natures. Those who were the best in the 
pre-lslamic period, are also the best in Islam if they comprehend religious knowledge. You see that the 
best amongst the people in this respect (i.e. ambition of ruling) are those who hate it most. And you 
see that the worst among people is the double faced (person) who appears to these with one face and 
to the others with another face (i.e a hypocrite).
Bukhari:3495 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The tribe of Quraish has precedence over the people in this connection (i.e the right 
of ruling). The Muslims follow the Muslims amongst them, and the infidels follow the infidels 
amongst them. People are of different natures: The best amongst them in the pre-lslamic period are the 
best in Islam provided they comprehend the religious knowledge. You will find that the best amongst 
the people in this respect (i.e. of ruling) is he who hates it (i.e. the idea of ruling) most, till he is given 
the pledge of allegiance."
Bukhari:3496 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The tribe of Quraish has precedence over the people in this connection (i.e the right 
of ruling). The Muslims follow the Muslims amongst them, and the infidels follow the infidels 
amongst them. People are of different natures: The best amongst them in the pre-lslamic period are the 
best in Islam provided they comprehend the religious knowledge. You will find that the best amongst 
the people in this respect (i.e. of ruling) is he who hates it (i.e. the idea of ruling) most, till he is given 
the pledge of allegiance."
Bukhari:3497 Narrated Tawus:Ibn `Abbas recited the Qur'anic Verse:--'Except to be kind to me for my kin-ship to you--" (42.23) 
Sa`id bin Jubair said, "(The Verse implies) the kinship of Muhammad." Ibn `Abbas said, "There was 
not a single house (i.e. sub-tribe) of Quraish but had a kinship to the Prophet (ﷺ) and so the above Verse 
was revealed in this connection, and its interpretation is: 'O Quraish! You should keep good relation 
between me (i.e. Muhammad) and you."
Bukhari:3498 Narrated Abi Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "From this side from the east, afflictions will appear. Rudeness and lack of mercy 
are characteristics of the rural bedouins who are busy with their camels and cows (and pay no 
attention to religion). Such are the tribes of Rabi`a and Mudar."
