Bukhari:1 Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The reward of deeds depends upon the 
     intentions and every person will get the reward according to what he 
     has intended. So whoever emigrated for worldly benefits or for a woman
     to marry, his emigration was for what he emigrated for."
Bukhari:2 Narrated 'Aisha:(the mother of the faithful believers) Al-Harith bin Hisham asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How is the Divine Inspiration revealed to you?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Sometimes it is (revealed) like the ringing of a bell, this form of Inspiration is the hardest of all and then this state passes off after I have grasped what is inspired. Sometimes the Angel comes in the form of a man and talks to me and I grasp whatever he says." 'Aisha added: Verily I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) being inspired divinely on a very cold day and noticed the sweat dropping from his forehead (as the Inspiration was over).
Bukhari:3 Narrated 'Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers):The commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of good dreams which came true like bright daylight, and then the love of seclusion was bestowed upon him. He used to go in seclusion in the cave of Hira where he used to worship (Allah alone) continuously for many days before his desire to see his family. He used to take with him the journey food for the stay and then come back to (his wife) Khadija to take his food likewise again till suddenly the Truth descended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira. The angel came to him and asked him to read. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I do not know how to read." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The angel caught me (forcefully) and pressed me so hard that I could not bear it any more. He then released me and again asked me to read and I replied, 'I do not know how to read.' Thereupon he caught me again and pressed me a second time till I could not bear it any more. He then released me and again asked me to read but again I replied, 'I do not know how to read (or what shall I read)?' Thereupon he caught me for the third time and pressed me, and then released me and said, 'Read in the name of your Lord, who has created (all that exists), created man from a clot. Read! And your Lord is the Most Generous." (96.1, 96.2, 96.3) Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned with the Inspiration and with his heart beating severely. Then he went to Khadija bint Khuwailid and said, "Cover me! Cover me!" They covered him till his fear was over and after that he told her everything that had happened and said, "I fear that something may happen to me." Khadija replied, "Never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones."  Khadija then accompanied him to her cousin Waraqa bin Naufal bin Asad bin 'Abdul 'Uzza, who, during the pre-Islamic Period became a Christian and used to write the writing with Hebrew letters. He would write from the Gospel in Hebrew as much as Allah wished him to write. He was an old man and had lost his eyesight. Khadija said to Waraqa, "Listen to the story of your nephew, O my cousin!" Waraqa asked, "O my nephew! What have you seen?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) described whatever he had seen. Waraqa said, "This is the same one who keeps the secrets (angel Gabriel) whom Allah had sent to Moses. I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turn you out." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Will they drive me out?" Waraqa replied in the affirmative and said, "Anyone (man) who came with something similar to what you have brought was treated with hostility; and if I should remain alive till the day when you will be turned out then I would support you strongly." But after a few days Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was also paused for a while.
Bukhari:4 Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah Al-Ansari (while talking about the period of pause in revelation) reporting the speech of the Prophet:"While I was walking, all of a sudden I heard a voice from the sky. I looked up and saw the same angel who had visited me at the cave of Hira' sitting on a chair between the sky and the earth. I got afraid of him and came back home and said, 'Wrap me (in blankets).' And then Allah revealed the following Holy Verses (of Quran):  'O you (i.e. Muhammad)! wrapped up in garments!' Arise and warn (the people against Allah's Punishment),... up to 'and desert the idols.' (74.1-5) After this the revelation started coming strongly, frequently and regularly."
Bukhari:5 Narrated Said bin Jubair:Ibn 'Abbas in the explanation of the statement of Allah "Move not your tongue concerning (the Quran) to make haste therewith." (75.16) said "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to bear the revelation with great trouble and used to move his lips (quickly) with the Inspiration." Ibn 'Abbas moved his lips saying, "I am moving my lips in front of you as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to move his." Said moved his lips saying: "I am moving my lips, as I saw Ibn 'Abbas moving his." Ibn 'Abbas added, "So Allah revealed 'Move not your tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste therewith. It is for Us to collect it and to give you (O Muhammad) the ability to recite it (the Quran)' (75.16-17) which means that Allah will make him (the Prophet) remember the portion of the Qur'an which was revealed at that time by heart and recite it. The statement of Allah: 'And when we have recited it to you (O Muhammad through Gabriel) then you follow its (Quran) recital' (75.18) means 'listen to it and be silent.' Then it is for Us (Allah) to make it clear to you' (75.19) means 'Then it is (for Allah) to make you recite it (and its meaning will be clear by itself through your tongue). Afterwards, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to listen to Gabriel whenever he came and after his departure he used to recite it as Gabriel had recited it."
Bukhari:6 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the most generous of all the people, and he used 
     to reach the peak in generosity in the month of Ramadan when Gabriel 
     met him. Gabriel used to meet him every night of Ramadan to teach him 
     the Qur'an. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the most generous person, even more 
     generous than the strong uncontrollable wind (in readiness and haste 
     to do charitable deeds).
Bukhari:7 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas:Abu Sufyan bin Harb informed me that Heraclius had sent a messenger to
     him while he had been accompanying a caravan from Quraish. They were 
     merchants doing business in Sham (Syria, Palestine, Lebanon and 
     Jordan), at the time when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had truce with Abu Sufyan 
     and Quraish infidels. So Abu Sufyan and his companions went to 
     Heraclius at Ilya (Jerusalem). Heraclius called them in the court and 
     he had all the senior Roman dignitaries around him. He called for his 
     translator who, translating Heraclius's question said to them, "Who 
     amongst you is closely related to that man who claims to be a 
     Prophet?" Abu Sufyan replied, "I am the nearest relative to him 
     (amongst the group)."Heraclius said, "Bring him (Abu Sufyan) close to me and make his 
     companions stand behind him." Abu Sufyan added, Heraclius told his 
     translator to tell my companions that he wanted to put some questions 
     to me regarding that man (The Prophet) and that if I told a lie they 
     (my companions) should contradict me." Abu Sufyan added, "By Allah! 
     Had I not been afraid of my companions labeling me a liar, I would not
     have spoken the truth about the Prophet. The first question he asked 
     me about him was:'What is his family status amongst you?'I replied, 'He belongs to a good (noble) family amongst us.'Heraclius further asked, 'Has anybody amongst you ever claimed the 
     same (i.e. to be a Prophet) before him?'I replied, 'No.'He said, 'Was anybody amongst his ancestors a king?'I replied, 'No.'Heraclius asked, 'Do the nobles or the poor follow him?'I replied, 'It is the poor who follow him.'He said, 'Are his followers increasing decreasing (day by day)?'I replied, 'They are increasing.'He then asked, 'Does anybody amongst those who embrace his religion 
     become displeased and renounce the religion afterwards?'I replied, 'No.'Heraclius said, 'Have you ever accused him of telling lies before his 
     claim (to be a Prophet)?'I replied, 'No. 'Heraclius said, 'Does he break his promises?'I replied, 'No. We are at truce with him but we do not know what he 
     will do in it.' I could not find opportunity to say anything against 
     him except that.Heraclius asked, 'Have you ever had a war with him?'I replied, 'Yes.'Then he said, 'What was the outcome of the battles?'I replied, 'Sometimes he was victorious and sometimes we.'Heraclius said, 'What does he order you to do?'I said, 'He tells us to worship Allah and Allah alone and not to 
     worship anything along with Him, and to renounce all that our 
     ancestors had said. He orders us to pray, to speak the truth, to be 
     chaste and to keep good relations with our Kith and kin.'Heraclius asked the translator to convey to me the following, I asked 
     you about his family and your reply was that he belonged to a very 
     noble family. In fact all the Apostles come from noble families 
     amongst their respective peoples. I questioned you whether anybody 
     else amongst you claimed such a thing, your reply was in the negative.
     If the answer had been in the affirmative, I would have thought that 
     this man was following the previous man's statement. Then I asked you 
     whether anyone of his ancestors was a king. Your reply was in the 
     negative, and if it had been in the affirmative, I would have thought 
     that this man wanted to take back his ancestral kingdom.I further asked whether he was ever accused of telling lies before he 
     said what he said, and your reply was in the negative. So I wondered 
     how a person who does not tell a lie about others could ever tell a 
     lie about Allah. I, then asked you whether the rich people followed 
     him or the poor. You replied that it was the poor who followed him. 
     And in fact all the Apostle have been followed by this very class of 
     people. Then I asked you whether his followers were increasing or 
     decreasing. You replied that they were increasing, and in fact this is
     the way of true faith, till it is complete in all respects. I further 
     asked you whether there was anybody, who, after embracing his 
     religion, became displeased and discarded his religion. Your reply was
     in the negative, and in fact this is (the sign of) true faith, when 
     its delight enters the hearts and mixes with them completely. I asked 
     you whether he had ever betrayed. You replied in the negative and 
     likewise the Apostles never betray. Then I asked you what he ordered 
     you to do. You replied that he ordered you to worship Allah and Allah 
     alone and not to worship any thing along with Him and forbade you to 
     worship idols and ordered you to pray, to speak the truth and to be 
     chaste. If what you have said is true, he will very soon occupy this 
     place underneath my feet and I knew it (from the scriptures) that he 
     was going to appear but I did not know that he would be from you, and 
     if I could reach him definitely, I would go immediately to meet him 
     and if I were with him, I would certainly wash his feet.' Heraclius 
     then asked for the letter addressed by Allah's Apostlewhich was delivered by Dihya to the Governor of Busra, who forwarded 
     it to Heraclius to read. The contents of the letter were as follows: 
     "In the name of Allah the Beneficent, the Merciful (This letter is) 
     from Muhammad the slave of Allah and His Apostle to Heraclius the 
     ruler of Byzantine. Peace be upon him, who follows the right path. 
     Furthermore I invite you to Islam, and if you become a Muslim you will
     be safe, and Allah will double your reward, and if you reject this 
     invitation of Islam you will be committing a sin of
     Arisiyin (tillers, farmers i.e. your people). And  (Allah's Statement:)'O people of the scripture! Come to a word common to you and us that 
     we worship none but Allah and that we associate nothing in worship 
     with Him, and that none of us shall take others as Lords beside Allah.
     Then, if they turn away, say: Bear witness that we are Muslims (those 
     who have surrendered to Allah).' (3:64).Abu Sufyan then added, "When Heraclius had finished his speech and had
     read the letter, there was a great hue and cry in the Royal Court. So 
     we were turned out of the court. I told my companions that the 
     question of Ibn-Abi-Kabsha) (the Prophet (ﷺ) Muhammad) has become so 
     prominent that even the King of Bani Al-Asfar (Byzantine) is afraid of
     him. Then I started to become sure that he (the Prophet) would be the 
     conqueror in the near future till I embraced Islam (i.e. Allah guided 
     me to it)."The sub narrator adds, "Ibn An-Natur was the Governor of llya' 
     (Jerusalem) and Heraclius was the head of the Christians of Sham. Ibn 
     An-Natur narrates that once while Heraclius was visiting ilya' 
     (Jerusalem), he got up in the morning with a sad mood. Some of his 
     priests asked him why he was in that mood? Heraclius was a foreteller 
     and an astrologer. He replied, 'At night when I looked at the stars, I
     saw that the leader of those who practice circumcision had appeared 
     (become the conqueror). Who are they who practice circumcision?' The 
     people replied, 'Except the Jews nobody practices circumcision, so you
     should not be afraid of them (Jews).'Just Issue orders to kill every Jew present in the country.'While they were discussing it, a messenger sent by the king of Ghassan
     to convey the news of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Heraclius was brought in. 
     Having heard the news, he (Heraclius) ordered the people to go and see
     whether the messenger of Ghassan was circumcised. The people, after 
     seeing him, told Heraclius that he was circumcised. Heraclius then 
     asked him about the Arabs. The messenger replied, 'Arabs also practice
     circumcision.'(After hearing that) Heraclius remarked that sovereignty of the 'Arabs
     had appeared. Heraclius then wrote a letter to his friend in Rome who 
     was as good as Heraclius in knowledge. Heraclius then left for Homs. 
     (a town in Syrian and stayed there till he received the reply of his 
     letter from his friend who agreed with him in his opinion about the 
     emergence of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the fact that he was a Prophet. On that 
     Heraclius invited all the heads of the Byzantines to assemble in his 
     palace at Homs. When they assembled, he ordered that all the doors of 
     his palace be closed. Then he came out and said, 'O Byzantines! If 
     success is your desire and if you seek right guidance and want your 
     empire to remain then give a pledge of allegiance to this Prophet 
     (i.e. embrace Islam).'(On hearing the views of Heraclius) the people ran towards the gates 
     of the palace like onagers but found the doors closed. Heraclius 
     realized their hatred towards Islam and when he lost the hope of their
     embracing Islam, he ordered that they should be brought back in 
     audience.(When they returned) he said, 'What already said was just to test the 
     strength of your conviction and I have seen it.' The people prostrated
     before him and became pleased with him, and this was the end of 
     Heraclius's story (in connection with his faith).
Bukhari:8 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Islam is based on (the following) five 
     (principles):1. To testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah and 
     Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).2. To offer the (compulsory congregational) prayers dutifully and 
     perfectly.3. To pay Zakat (i.e. obligatory charity) .4. To perform Hajj. (i.e. Pilgrimage to Mecca)5. To observe fast during the month of Ramadan.
Bukhari:9 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Faith (Belief) consists of more than sixty branches
     (i.e. parts). And Haya (This term "Haya" covers a large number of 
     concepts which are to be taken together; amongst them are self 
     respect, modesty, bashfulness, and scruple, etc.) is a part of 
     faith."
Bukhari:10 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with
     his tongue and hands. And a Muhajir (emigrant) is the one who gives up
     (abandons) all what Allah has forbidden."
Bukhari:11 Narrated Abu Musa:Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Whose Islam is the best? i.e. (Who
     is a very good Muslim)?" He replied, "One who avoids harming the 
     Muslims with his tongue and hands."
Bukhari:12 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) , "What sort of deeds or (what qualities of) 
     Islam are good?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'To feed (the poor) and greet 
     those whom you know and those whom you do not Know (See 
     Hadith No. 27).
Bukhari:13 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you will have faith till he wishes for his 
     (Muslim) brother what he likes for himself."
Bukhari:14 Narrated Abu Huraira:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, none of you 
     will have faith till he loves me more than his father and his 
     children."
Bukhari:15 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "None of you will have faith till he loves me more 
     than his father, his children and all mankind."
Bukhari:16 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever possesses the following three qualities 
     will have the sweetness (delight) of faith:1. The one to whom Allah and His Apostle becomes dearer than anything 
     else.2. Who loves a person and he loves him only for Allah's sake.3. Who hates to revert to Atheism (disbelief) as he hates to be thrown
     into the fire."
Bukhari:17 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Love for the Ansar is a sign of faith and hatred 
     for the Ansar is a sign of hypocrisy."
Bukhari:18 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:who took part in the battle of Badr and was a Naqib (a person heading 
     a group of six persons), on the night of Al-'Aqaba pledge: Allah's 
     Apostle said while a group of his companions were around him, "Swear 
     allegiance to me for:1. Not to join anything in worship along with Allah.2. Not to steal.3. Not to commit illegal sexual intercourse.4. Not to kill your children.5. Not to accuse an innocent person (to spread such an accusation 
     among people).6. Not to be disobedient (when ordered) to do good deed."The Prophet (ﷺ) added: "Whoever among you fulfills his pledge will be 
     rewarded by Allah. And whoever indulges in any one of them (except the
     ascription of partners to Allah) and gets the punishment in this 
     world, that punishment will be an expiation for that sin. And if one 
     indulges in any of them, and Allah conceals his sin, it is up to Him 
     to forgive or punish him (in the Hereafter)." 'Ubada bin As-Samit 
     added: "So we swore allegiance for these." (points to Allah's 
     Apostle)
Bukhari:19 Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A time will soon come when the best property of a Muslim will be sheep which he will take on the top of mountains and the places of rainfall (valleys) so as to flee with his religion from afflictions."
Bukhari:20 Narrated 'Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered the Muslims to do something, he used 
     to order them deeds which were easy for them to do, (according to 
     their strength and endurance). They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are not 
     like you. Allah  has forgiven your past and future sins." So Allah's 
     Apostle became angry and it was apparent on his face. He said, "I am 
     the most Allah fearing, and know Allah better than all of you do."
Bukhari:21 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever possesses the following three qualities 
     will taste the sweetness of faith:1. The one to whom Allah and His Apostle become dearer than anything 
     else.2. Who loves a person and he loves him only for Allah's sake.3. Who hates to revert to disbelief (Atheism) after Allah has brought 
     (saved) him out from it, as he hates to be thrown in fire."
Bukhari:22 Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the people of Paradise will enter Paradise and
     the people of Hell will go to Hell, Allah will order those who have 
     had faith equal to the weight of a grain of mustard seed to be taken 
     out from Hell. So they will be taken out but (by then) they will be 
     blackened (charred). Then they will be put in the river of Haya' 
     (rain) or Hayat (life) (the Narrator is in doubt as to which is the 
     right term), and they will revive like a grain that grows near the 
     bank of a flood channel. Don't you see that it comes out yellow and 
     twisted"
Bukhari:23 Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping I saw (in a dream) some 
     people wearing shirts of which some were reaching up to the breasts 
     only while others were even shorter than that. Umar bin Al-Khattab was
     shown wearing a shirt that he was dragging." The people asked, "How 
     did you interpret it? (What is its interpretation) O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
     He (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) replied, "It is the Religion."
Bukhari:24 Narrated 'Abdullah (bin 'Umar):Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by an Ansari (man) who was admonishing
     his brother regarding Haya'. On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave him 
     as Haya' is a part of faith." (SeeHadith 9)
Bukhari:25 Narrated Ibn 'Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "I have been ordered (by Allah) to fight against
     the people until they testify that none has the right to be worshipped
     but Allah and that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and offer the prayers 
     perfectly and give the obligatory charity, so if they perform that, 
     then they save their lives and property from me except for Islamic laws
     and then their reckoning (accounts) will be done by Allah."
Bukhari:26 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked, "What is the best deed?" He replied, "To 
     believe in Allah and His Apostle (Muhammad). The questioner then 
     asked, "What is the next (in goodness)? He replied, "To participate in
     Jihad (religious fighting) in Allah's Cause." The questioner again 
     asked, "What is the next (in goodness)?" He replied, "To perform Hajj 
     (Pilgrim age to Mecca) 'Mubrur, (which is accepted by Allah and is 
     performed with the intention of seeking Allah's pleasure only and not 
     to show off and without committing a sin and in accordance with the 
     traditions of the Prophet)."
Bukhari:27 Narrated Sa'd:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) distributed (Zakat) amongst (a group of) people while 
     I was sitting there but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left a man whom I thought the 
     best of the lot. I asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have you left that 
     person? By Allah I regard him as a faithful believer." The Prophet (ﷺ) 
     commented: "Or merely a Muslim." I remained quiet for a while, but 
     could not help repeating my question because of what I knew about him.
     And then asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Why have you left so and so? By 
     Allah! He is a faithful believer." The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, "Or merely 
     a Muslim." And I could not help repeating my question because of what 
     I knew about him. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Sa'd! I give to a person 
     while another is dearer to me, for fear that he might be thrown on his
     face in the Fire by Allah."
Bukhari:28 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . "What (sort of) deeds in or (what 
     qualities of) Islam are good?" He replied, "To feed (the poor) and 
     greet those whom you know and those whom you don't know."
Bukhari:29 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "I was shown the Hell-fire and that the majority of 
     its dwellers were women who were ungrateful." It was asked, "Do they 
     disbelieve in Allah?" (or are they ungrateful to Allah?) He replied, 
     "They are ungrateful to their husbands and are ungrateful for the 
     favors and the good (charitable deeds) done to them. If you have 
     always been good (benevolent) to one of them and then she sees 
     something in you (not of her liking), she will say, 'I have never 
     received any good from you."
Bukhari:30 Narrated Al-Ma'rur:At Ar-Rabadha I met Abu Dhar who was wearing a cloak, and his slave, 
     too, was wearing a similar one. I asked about the reason for it. He 
     replied, "I abused a person by calling his mother with bad names." The
     Prophet said to me, 'O Abu Dhar! Did you abuse him by calling his 
     mother with bad names You still have some characteristics of 
     ignorance. Your slaves are your brothers and Allah has put them under 
     your command. So whoever has a brother under his command should feed 
     him of what he eats and dress him of what he wears. Do not ask them 
     (slaves) to do things beyond their capacity (power) and if you do so, 
     then help them.' "
Bukhari:31 Narrated Al-Ahnaf bin Qais:While I was going to help this man ('Ali Ibn Abi Talib), Abu Bakra met
     me and asked, "Where are you going?" I replied, "I am going to help 
     that person." He said, "Go back for I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     saying, 'When two Muslims fight (meet) each other with their swords, 
     both the murderer as well as the murdered will go to the Hell-fire.' I
     said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is all right for the murderer but what 
     about the murdered one?' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "He surely had the 
     intention to kill his companion."
Bukhari:32 Narrated 'Abdullah:When the following Verse was revealed: "It is those who believe and 
     confuse not their belief with wrong (worshipping others besides 
     Allah.)" (6:83), the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Who is 
     amongst us who had not done injustice (wrong)?" Allah revealed: "No 
     doubt, joining others in worship with Allah is a great injustice 
     (wrong) indeed." (31.13)
Bukhari:33 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three:1. Whenever he speaks, he tells a lie.2. Whenever he promises, he always breaks it (his promise ).3. If you trust him, he proves to be dishonest. (If you keep something
     as a trust with him, he will not return it.)"
Bukhari:34 Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has the following four (characteristics) 
     will be a pure hypocrite and whoever has one of the following four 
     characteristics will have one characteristic of hypocrisy unless and 
     until he gives it up.1. Whenever he is entrusted, he betrays.2. Whenever he speaks, he tells a lie.3. Whenever he makes a covenant, he proves treacherous.4. Whenever he quarrels, he behaves in a very imprudent, evil and 
     insulting manner."
Bukhari:35 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever establishes the prayers on the night of
     Qadr out of sincere faith and hoping to attain Allah's rewards (not to
     show off) then all his past sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:36 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The person who participates in (Holy battles) in 
     Allah's cause and nothing compels him to do so except belief in Allah 
     and His Apostles, will be recompensed by Allah either with a reward, 
     or booty (if he survives) or will be admitted to Paradise (if he is 
     killed in the battle as a martyr). Had I not found it difficult for my
     followers, then I would not remain behind any sariya going for Jihad 
     and I would have loved to be martyred in Allah's cause and then made 
     alive, and then martyred and then made alive, and then again martyred 
     in His cause."
Bukhari:37 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "Whoever establishes prayers during the nights 
     of Ramadan faithfully out of sincere faith and hoping to attain 
     Allah's rewards (not for showing off), all his past sins will be 
     forgiven."
Bukhari:38 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever observes fasts during the month of 
     Ramadan out of sincere faith, and hoping to attain Allah's rewards, 
     then all his past sins will be forgiven."
Bukhari:39 Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Religion is very easy and whoever overburdens 
     himself in his religion will not be able to continue in that way. So 
     you should not be extremists, but try to be near to perfection and 
     receive the good tidings that you will be rewarded; and gain strength 
     by worshipping in the mornings, the afternoons, and during the last hours of the nights." (See Fath-ul-Bari, Page 
     102, Vol 1).
Bukhari:40 Narrated Al-Bara' (bin 'Azib):When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Medina, he stayed first with his grandfathers
     or maternal uncles from Ansar. He offered his prayers facing 
     Baitul-Maqdis (Jerusalem) for sixteen or seventeen months, but he 
     wished that he could pray facing the Ka'ba (at Mecca). The first 
     prayer which he offered facing the Ka'ba was the 'Asr prayer in the 
     company of some people. Then one of those who had offered that prayer 
     with him came out and passed by some people in a mosque who were 
     bowing during their prayers (facing Jerusalem). He said addressing 
     them, "By Allah, I testify that I have prayed with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     facing Mecca (Ka'ba).' Hearing that, those people changed their 
     direction towards the Ka'ba immediately. Jews and the people of the 
     scriptures used to be pleased to see the Prophet (ﷺ) facing Jerusalem in 
     prayers but when he changed his direction towards the Ka'ba, during 
     the prayers, they disapproved of it.Al-Bara' added, "Before we changed our direction towards the Ka'ba 
     (Mecca) in prayers, some Muslims had died or had been killed and we 
     did not know what to say about them (regarding their prayers.) Allah 
     then revealed: And Allah would never make your faith (prayers) to be 
     lost (i.e. the prayers of those Muslims were valid).' " (2:143).
Bukhari:41 Narrated Abu Sa'id Al Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a person embraces Islam sincerely, then Allah shall forgive all his past sins, and after that starts the settlement of accounts, the reward of his good deeds will be ten times to seven hundred times for each good deed and one evil deed will be recorded as it is unless Allah forgives it."
Bukhari:42 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you improve (follows strictly) 
     his Islamic religion then his good deeds will be rewarded ten times to
     seven hundred times for each good deed and a bad deed will be recorded
     as it is."
Bukhari:43 Narrated 'Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) came while a woman was sitting with me. He said, "Who
     is she?" I replied, "She is so and so," and told him about her 
     (excessive) praying. He said disapprovingly, "Do (good) deeds which is
     within your capacity (without being overtaxed) as Allah does not get 
     tired (of giving rewards) but (surely) you will get tired and the best
     deed (act of Worship) in the sight of Allah is that which is done 
     regularly."
Bukhari:44 Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever said "None has the right to be worshipped 
     but Allah and has in his heart good (faith) equal to the weight of a 
     barley grain will be taken out of Hell. And whoever said: "None has 
     the right to be worshipped but Allah and has in his heart good (faith)
     equal to the weight of a wheat grain will be taken out of Hell. And 
     whoever said, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah and has 
     in his heart good (faith) equal to the weight of an atom will be taken
     out of Hell."
Bukhari:45 Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:Once a Jew said to me, "O the chief of believers! There is a verse in 
     your Holy Book Which is read by all of you (Muslims), and had it been 
     revealed to us, we would have taken that day (on which it was revealed
     as a day of celebration." 'Umar bin Al-Khattab asked, "Which is that 
     verse?" The Jew replied, "This day I have perfected your religion For 
     you, completed My favor upon you, And have chosen for you Islam as 
     your religion." (5:3) 'Umar replied,"No doubt, we know when and where 
     this verse was revealed to the Prophet. It was Friday and the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     was standing at 'Arafat (i.e. the Day of Hajj)"
Bukhari:46 Narrated Talha bin 'Ubaidullah:A man from Najd with unkempt hair came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we heard
     his loud voice but could not understand what he was saying, till he 
     came near and then we came to know that he was asking about Islam. 
     Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You have to offer prayers perfectly five times 
     in a day and night (24 hours)." The man asked, "Is there any more 
     (praying)?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "No, but if you want to offer the
     Nawafil prayers (you can)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said to him: "You 
     have to observe fasts during the month of Ramadan." The man asked, 
     "Is there any more fasting?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "No, but if you 
     want to observe the Nawafil fasts (you can.)" Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     further said to him, "You have to pay the Zakat (obligatory charity)."
     The man asked, "Is there any thing other than the Zakat for me to 
     pay?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "No, unless you want to give alms of 
     your own." And then that man retreated saying, "By Allah! I will 
     neither do less nor more than this." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If what he
     said is true, then he will be successful (i.e. he will be granted 
     Paradise)."
Bukhari:47 Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(A believer) who accompanies the funeral 
     procession of a Muslim out of sincere faith and hoping to attain 
     Allah's reward and remains with it till the funeral prayer is offered 
     and the burial ceremonies are over, he will return with a reward of 
     two Qirats. Each Qirat is like the size of the (Mount) Uhud. He who 
     offers the funeral prayer only and returns before the burial, will 
     return with the reward of one Qirat only."
Bukhari:48 Narrated 'Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (an evil doing) and 
     killing him is Kufr (disbelief)."
Bukhari:49 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:"Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to inform the people about the (date of the)
     night of decree (Al-Qadr) but there happened a quarrel between two 
     Muslim men. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I came out to inform you about (the 
     date of) the night of Al-Qadr, but as so and so and so and so 
     quarrelled, its knowledge was taken away (I forgot it) and maybe it 
     was better for you. Now look for it in the 7th, the 9th and the 5th 
     (of the last 10 nights of the month of Ramadan)."
Bukhari:50 Narrated Abu Huraira:One day while the Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting in the company of some people, 
     (The angel) Gabriel came and asked, "What is faith?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     replied, 'Faith is to believe in Allah, His angels, (the) meeting with
     Him, His Apostles, and to believe in Resurrection." Then he further 
     asked, "What is Islam?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "To worship Allah 
     Alone and none else, to offer prayers perfectly to pay the compulsory 
     charity (Zakat) and to observe fasts during the month of Ramadan."  
     Then he further asked, "What is Ihsan (perfection)?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) 
     replied, "To worship Allah as if you see Him, and if you cannot 
     achieve this state of devotion then you must consider that He is 
     looking at you." Then he further asked, "When will the Hour be 
     established?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "The answerer has no better 
     knowledge than the questioner. But I will inform you about its 
     portents.1. When a slave (lady) gives birth to her master.2. When the shepherds of black camels start boasting and competing 
     with others in the construction of higher buildings. And the Hour is 
     one of five things which nobody knows except Allah.The Prophet (ﷺ) then recited: "Verily, with Allah (Alone) is the knowledge
     of the Hour--." (31. 34) Then that man (Gabriel) left and the Prophet (ﷺ) 
     asked his companions to call him back, but they could not see him. 
     Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That was Gabriel who came to teach the people 
     their religion." Abu 'Abdullah said: He (the Prophet) considered all 
     that as a part of faith.
